W-12562034-k8install-duke (#200)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.4/modules/ROOT/pages/flex-gateway-getting-started-kubernetes.adoc

.. Replace `<gateway-name>`, located at the end of the command block, with a name of your choice, such as `my-gw`, for example:
+
----
docker run --entrypoint flexctl -u $UID \
>   -v "$(pwd)":/registration mulesoft/flex-gateway \
>   register --organization=_ORG_ID_HERE_ \
>   --token=_TOKEN_VALUE_HERE_ \
>   --output-directory=/registration \
>   --connected=true \
>   my-gw
----
+
Runtime Manager provides the required organization and token values.

.. Run the copied command.
+
When successful, the command produces a `registration.yaml` in your `/flex-registration` directory and provides the following message in your terminal window:
+
----
Starting registration, please be patient.
Registration completed, the configuration files were written 
in directory "/registration". For security, modify the file permissions 
to restrict production scenario access to the user running flex.
----
+
The `Registration completed` message in the terminal window refers to a `/registration` directory that resides within the Docker container.  
+

> Use `sudo` if you encounter file permission issues when running this command. If your token expires before you run the command, a `400 Bad Request` error occurs, so you need to refresh the Runtime Manager page to generate a new token using the command that appears on the page.

Author: ```suggestion
Use `sudo` if you encounter file permission issues when running this command. If your token expires before you run the command, a `400 Bad Request` error occurs, so you need to refresh the Runtime Manager page to generate a new token and run the modified command that appears on the page.
```

== Step 3: Create a Repository for the Helm Chart

Add and update a local repository that stores a Helm chart with your Flex Gateway replica's configuration. Note that you can get more information about the properties of the Helm chart for Flex Gateway in https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/flex-gateway/flex-gateway[ArtifactHUB^].

. Add the Helm repo: 
+
[source,helm]
----
helm repo add flex-gateway https://flex-packages.anypoint.mulesoft.com/helm
----
+
The command either creates a repository or skips the repository creation process if one exists already:
+
* If the repository is new, the command returns the following message:
+
----
"flex-gateway" has been added to your repositories
----
+
* If the repository exists already, the command returns the following message:
+
----
"flex-gateway" already exists with the same configuration, skipping
----

. Run `helm repo up`.
+

> The command returns this message:

Author: ```suggestion
The command returns the following message:
```

+
----
Hang tight while we grab the latest from your chart repositories...
...Successfully got an update from the "flex-gateway" chart repository
Update Complete. ⎈Happy Helming!⎈
----

[[deploy-flex]]
== Step 4: Deploy Flex Gateway

Use Helm to deploy a Flex Gateway container (replica) to a node in your cluster and connect it to Anypoint Platform. After deploying, you can use Runtime Manager to verify that the replica of your Flex Gateway is present and connected to Anypoint Platform. 

> . From your terminal window, use `kubectl` to point to the cluster into which you deploy the Flex Gateway replica, for example: 

Author: ```suggestion
. From your terminal window, use `kubectl` to point to the cluster into which you plan to deploy the Flex Gateway replica, for example: 
```

+
.. List available clusters.
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl config get-contexts
----
.. From the list of contexts, identify the cluster to host your Flex Gateway replica.
.. Select the cluster to use, replacing `my-cluster` in the following example with the cluster you choose: 
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl config use-context my-cluster
----
+
For more guidance, see <<use-cluster>>.

. Run the Helm command for deploying your Flex Gateway replica and connecting it to Anypoint Platform. 
+
[source,helm]
----
helm -n gateway upgrade -i --create-namespace --wait ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway --set-file registration.content=registration.yaml
----

> +

Author: TODO (NOTE TO SELF): point to troubleshooting for potential issues

Author: done

A new Flex Gateway instance is now running in your terminal window.
+
[NOTE]
The Flex Gateway replica continues running until you stop the process or close the terminal window in which it is running.

> . In Runtime Manager, select *Flex Gateways* from the side navigation panel.

Author: ```suggestion
. To find the replica in Runtime Manager, select *Flex Gateways* from the side navigation panel.
```

+

> Your registered Flex Gateway now appears in the list of gateways.

Author: ```suggestion
The name of your registered Flex Gateway replica now appears in the list of gateways.
```

GLBCDefaultBackend is running at https://34.30.50.119/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/default-http-backend:http/proxy
KubeDNS is running at https://34.30.50.119/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/kube-dns:dns/proxy
Metrics-server is running at https://34.30.50.119/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/https:metrics-server:/proxy
----
+
If the cluster is not up, the command returns a result similar to this one:
+
----
To further debug and diagnose cluster problems, use 'kubectl cluster-info dump'.
error: the server doesn't have a resource type "services"
----

* If the Helm upgrade command fails to generate a Service resource of the LoadBalancer type, the command hangs for 5 minutes (due to the `--wait`) flag in the command and produces the following timeout error:
+
[source,error]
----
Error: UPGRADE FAILED: timed out waiting for the condition
----
+
This error typically means that your cluster is not generating the LoadBalancer. Such an issue can occur if you are using minikube, for example. Use one of the recommended cloud services to host your cluster. See <<k8-cluster>>.

[[use-cluster]]
=== Switching to the Cluster Intended for Your Flex Gateway Deployment

> If you have multiple clusters, you need to make sure that you are using the correct one. To check, you can use `kubectl` to list and select the cluster to use.

Author: ```suggestion
If you have multiple clusters, you must select the one to use for your Flex Gateway replica. You can use `kubectl` to list and select the cluster.
```

.. Replace `<gateway-name>`, located at the end of the command block, with a name of your choice, such as `my-gw`, for example:
+
----
docker run --entrypoint flexctl -u $UID \
>   -v "$(pwd)":/registration mulesoft/flex-gateway \
>   register --organization=_ORG_ID_HERE_ \
>   --token=_TOKEN_VALUE_HERE_ \
>   --output-directory=/registration \
>   --connected=true \
>   my-gw
----
+
Runtime Manager provides the required organization and token values.

.. Run the copied command.
+
When successful, the command produces a `registration.yaml` in your `/flex-registration` directory and provides the following message in your terminal window:
+
----
Starting registration, please be patient.
Registration completed, the configuration files were written 
in directory "/registration". For security, modify the file permissions 
to restrict production scenario access to the user running flex.
----
+
The `Registration completed` message in the terminal window refers to a `/registration` directory that resides within the Docker container.  
+

> Use `sudo` if you encounter file permission issues when running this command. If your token expires before you run the command, a `400 Bad Request` error occurs, so you need to refresh the Runtime Manager page to generate a new token in the command that appears on the page.

Author: ```suggestion
Use `sudo` if you encounter file permission issues when running this command. If your token expires before you run the command, a `400 Bad Request` error occurs, so you need to refresh the Runtime Manager page to generate a new token using the command that appears on the page.
```

> Use `sudo` if you encounter file permission issues when running this command). If your token expires before you run the command, a `400 Bad Request` error occurs, so you need to refresh the Runtime Manager page to generate a new token in the command that appears on the page.

Author: ```suggestion
Use `sudo` if you encounter file permission issues when running this command. If your token expires before you run the command, a `400 Bad Request` error occurs, so you need to refresh the Runtime Manager page to generate a new token in the command that appears on the page.
```

> . View your new Flex Gateway replica in the Runtime Manager UI by selecting *Flex Gateways* from the side navigation panel and finding it in the list.

Author: ```suggestion
```

//TODO: NOTE TO SELF: CREATE A CLUSTER WITH THIS PROCEDURE AND TEST STEPS:
If you need to create a cluster to complete the steps in this guide and you have an Amazon Web Service (AWS) account, you can create an EKS cluster using https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/create-cluster.html[Amazon EKS User Guide^].

[NOTE]
To prevent potential timeout and connectivity errors when running procedures in this guide, avoid using simpler tools such as minikube to create a local cluster. 

== Step 1: Install Flex Gateway

Use Docker to install the Flex Gateway Docker image.

. Start your Docker application.
. Run the following command in a terminal window:
+
[source,docker,subs=attributes+]
----
docker pull mulesoft/flex-gateway:{gateway-ver-var}
----
+
When successful, this command returns a message similar to this one:
+
----
latest: Pulling from mulesoft/flex-gateway
Digest: sha256:e55555abcdefg...
Status: Image is up to date for mulesoft/flex-gateway:latest
docker.io/mulesoft/flex-gateway:latest
----
+
Use `sudo` if you encounter file permission issues when running this command. 

== Step 2: Register Flex Gateway

> Register the Flex Gateway image from a terminal window using a temporary token generated by Anypoint Runtime Manager. The procedure produces a `registration.yaml` file that is required in your Helm chart when you deploy the Flex Gateway replica to your cluster and connect it to Anypoint Platform.

Author: TODO (NOTE TO SELF): check term "image"

> Register the Flex Gateway image from a terminal window using a temporary token generated by Anypoint Runtime Manager. The procedure produces a `registration.yaml` file that is required in your Helm chart when you deploy the Flex Gateway replica to your cluster and connect it to Anypoint Platform.

Reviewer: Just a test comment

= Getting Started with Flex Gateway on a Kubernetes Cluster
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:version-helm: 3.0.0

Get started with Anypoint Flex Gateway on a Kubernetes cluster. Set up a Flex Gateway container that connects to Anypoint Platform in Connected Mode, and use the container to control local traffic to an API implementation. This guide covers the following high-level tasks:

* Installing, registering, deploying, and running a Flex Gateway container in Connected Mode. 
* Creating an API in Anypoint API Manager that runs on your Flex Gateway container. 
* Connecting to the API, first without any authentication, and then with a basic authentication policy that you set up for the API in API Manager. 

The Flex Gateway deployment process requires a working Kubernetes cluster that you create or that is provisioned for you by a Kubernetes professional. 

> Setting up a Kubernetes cluster requires a level of skill and expertise that is _beyond the scope of this guide to provide_. Cluster configuration in Kubernetes differs markedly by service provider and platform. For basic cluster setup questions, consult documentation from your Kubernetes service provider. 

Author: The overall goal is to help ensure that the correct audience uses this guide and the wrong audience (without requisite skills) doesn't use it, fail trying, and have a bad experience that makes them need support unnecessarily.

Third-party setup instructions get outdated and go beyond the scope of normal docs. Instructions for setting up a K8 cluster are complex and require some expertise.

Unless we want to provide a very SIMPLE set of instructions, perhaps on a tool like minikube, there really isn't an easy, maintainable way to provide setup steps.

An alternative is to explain the **basic requirements of the cluster** based on HOW people are/will be using Flex in it. I assume Flex can play different roles (ingress, ingress controller, maybe even egress in some cases?). We need to provide more detail on that so that it fits with the architectural info we're giving people. 

This particular guide would just cover the default case in k8 for connected mode, as an ingress.

Author: We are also adding some testing steps to confirm that an already-created cluster is ready for the deployment step. This is to help people avoid errors when they run the Flex setup steps.
     Find "Check Your Cluster," below.

We can also cover how to address basic common errors they might hit. 
     Find "Troubleshooting," below.

Author: A side benefit to showing a SIMPLE cluster setup would be to discover any cluster requirement (gaps) that we should cover in this doc so that we can doc that and provide a way for people to check/test that their cluster meets that requirement.

Author: Another benefit of providing a simple setup procedure might be some level of interest in the Flex just bc of interest in the procedure (found by Google search).

Author: We decided to go with basic cluster reqs, assume that the audience can set that up, and provide some troubleshooting help.

If you lack a Kubernetes cluster but want to try out Flex Gateway quickly, without creating a cluster, see xref:flex-gateway-getting-started.adoc[Getting Started with Flex Gateway] (for Docker), which does not require deployment to a cluster.

== Before You Begin

Before starting the procedures in this guide, ensure that the following prerequisites are in place:
 
* A username and password for your Anypoint Platform organization. If you don’t have Anypoint Platform yet, https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/login/signup[create a Trial organization^] on Anypoint Platform.
//TODO: VERIFY THAT Manage Servers and Read Servers permissions in Runtime Manager IS NO LONGER NEEDED

//os prereqs

> * A Linux or MacOS machine with an x86 processor. M1 and M2 processors are not supported.

Author: TODO: Do we or don't we allow use of Windows x86 for this? What is the OS requirement?

Author: From Seba: pending testing dependency

* {empty}
include::partial$prerequisites.adoc[tag=helm] 
+
Run `helm version` from a terminal window to find out if this tool is installed and check the version. To install or upgrade, use the https://helm.sh/[Helm^] website. 

//kubectl prereq to select cluster prior to deployment
* {empty}
include::partial$prerequisites.adoc[tag=kubectl]
+
Run `kubectl version --output=yaml` from a terminal window to find out if this tool is installed. If not, find `kubectl` among the installation tools available through the https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/[Kubernetes documentation^]. 

//curl prereq to test the API with flex
* {empty}
include::partial$prerequisites.adoc[tag=curl]
+
Run `curl --version` from a terminal window to find out if this tool is installed. If not, you can download it with a package manager for your machine. 

[[k8-cluster-reqs]]
== Kubernetes Cluster Requirements

The host for your Kubernetes cluster can be any xref:flex-review-prerequisites.adoc#software-requirements[supported Kubernetes provider], including common cloud-based services, such as Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS), Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS), or Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE).

> To complete the procedures in this guide, you must create a Kubernetes cluster or use an existing one for your Flex Gateway deployment. The Kubernetes cluster must contain a least one node to which you can deploy a Flex Gateway container (or replica). This guide uses Helm to deploy the container and connect it to Anypoint Platform. This process generates a Kubernetes `Service` resource of the `LoadBalancer` type by default. To avoid deployment errors, your cluster must support this process.

Author: As mentioned, we should provide a list of all the cluster requirements. (And probably explain how LoadBalancer related to ingress, also showing the architecture of this setup.)

Instead of presenting procedures for Kubernetes cluster configuration, this guide provides a set of `kubectl` command examples to help you determine whether your cluster is ready for deployment. See <<check-cluster>> before attempting the other procedures in the guide.

> Note that if you have an Amazon Web Service (AWS) account and the level of experience and expertise required for creating your own Kubernetes cluster, you can create an EKS cluster using https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/create-cluster.html[Amazon EKS User Guide^]. The AWS Management Console provides a way to create the EKS cluster, set up users and permissions, and configure node groups on dedicated virtual machines. 

Author: The actual EKS procedure requires an account and a lot of config beyond just the cluster. You have to pay for it, and it's easy to set up the cluster incorrectly. This is one reason for either avoiding cluster setup procedures or perhaps for providing a simple, local, free one via a simpler technology, if possible.

+
Alternatively, you can navigate to API Manager from the Anypoint Platform menu.
//TODO: FIX IMAGE lists my-gw... not my-gateway
. From the page that opens, click *Add API* (and if present, *Add new API*) to navigate to the *APIs / Add API* page in API Manager.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-select-gateway-for-api.png["Add API page with Flex Gateway Runtime and my-gateway selected"]
. Work through the API configuration pages (*Runtime*, *API*, *Endpoint*, *Review*) to provide an API:
.. From the *Runtime* page, select *Flex Gateway* as your runtime.
.. In the *Select a gateway* area of the page, select your registered gateway.
+
You can use the search field to locate it, if necessary.
.. Click *Next* to open the *API* page.
. In the *API* page, set up an endpoint for your API.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-select-endpoint.png["Screenshot of 'Endpoint' page",width=100%]
+
.. In *Runtime* configuration page, click *Create an API*.
.. Specify an API name, such as *my-api*.
.. Select *HTTP API* as the asset type.
.. Click *Next*.
.. From the *Endpoint* page that opens, copy the following URI into the *Implementation URI* field:

> +

Author: DONE: Add that we're assuming a cluster that's hosted on a remote server. Is it even possible to do this via localhost? (sorry if this is a dumb question, but need to check @seblaz . Is that even possible?)

Seba: Doesn't make a lot of sense in most any k8 use case.

Author: DONE: k8 need to use port 80 (or 443 ?)

Author: DONE: Follow up with S/dev for additional port configs.

[source]
----
https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/
----
.. Type `8081` in the *Port* field.
+
You can use any localhost port number that is available, typically `8081` through `8089`.
.. Click *Next* to 
.. Click *Save & Deploy*.
+
Inside the API instance, all HTTP requests to `localhost` on port `8081` are proxied to the `jsonplaceholder` service.
. To test the API instance, run the following command in a new terminal window:
+
[source,curl]
----
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n" --request GET 'http://localhost:8081/'
----
+
The command executes a `GET` request to the API, and then prints the resulting `200` status code, indicating success.

[NOTE]

> To connect to an implementation on a remote host, you can use port `80`, get the external IP address for your API by using `kubectl -n gateway get services`, and use that IP in your `curl` command instead of using `localhost:8081`.

Author: Here's an overview of the IP and port used for our external API implementation. Should I fill in more detail?

.. Click *Next*.
.. For *User Name*, enter `user`.
.. For *User Password*, enter `password`.
.. Click *Apply*.
+
The following figure highlights the options in the *Configure Basic Authentication - Simple policy* page:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-config-basic-auth.png["Configure Basic Authentication Policy page with User Password field selected",width=65%]

. To test the API Instance _without_ authentication, run the following `curl` command in the terminal window:
+
[source,ssh]
----
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n" --request GET 'http://localhost:8081/'
----
+
The command prints a resulting `401 (Unauthorized)` status code, because the request does not include the Authentication context.
. To test the API Instance _with_ authentication, run the following command in the terminal window:
+
[source,ssh]
----
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n" --request GET 'http://localhost:8081/' -u user:password
----
+
[NOTE]
The `user` and `password` parameters must match what was specified when you applied the policy via *API Manager*.
+
The command prints the resulting `200` status code, indicating success.

[[troubleshooting]]

> == Troubleshooting

Author: Troubleshooting section

Author: TODO: consider creating a separate troubleshooting page for info like this

Reviewer 2: We have this troubleshooting section in case you want to add more cases https://docs.mulesoft.com/gateway/latest/flex-troubleshoot

Author: ok! I'll integrate the info there instead of here. (should've seen. oh well...)

+
----
Kubernetes control plane is running at https://34.30.50.119
GLBCDefaultBackend is running at https://34.30.50.119/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/default-http-backend:http/proxy
KubeDNS is running at https://34.30.50.119/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/kube-dns:dns/proxy
Metrics-server is running at https://34.30.50.119/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/https:metrics-server:/proxy
----
+
If the cluster is not up, the command can return a result similar to this one:
+
----
To further debug and diagnose cluster problems, use 'kubectl cluster-info dump'.
error: the server doesn't have a resource type "services"
----
+
For additional assistance, see <<check-cluster>>.

* If the Helm upgrade command fails to generate a `Service` resource of the `LoadBalancer` type, the command hangs for 5 minutes (due to the `--wait`) flag in the command and produces the following timeout error:
+
[source,error]
----
Error: UPGRADE FAILED: timed out waiting for the condition
----
+
This error typically means that your cluster configuration is incorrect or that your cluster configuration tool does not support this process. See <<k8-cluster-reqs>>.

[[check-cluster]]

> === Check Your Cluster

Author: Check Your Cluster section

+
For more detail, see the https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/organize-cluster-access-kubeconfig/[Kubernetes documentation^] on the `kubeconfig` file. 

. Provide the name of a cluster into which you plan to deploy a Flex Gateway container.
+
The following example uses the cluster `my-eks`, identified in the cluster list: 
+
----
kubectl config use-context my-eks
----
+
The command switches to the selected cluster context and prints a message similar to this one:
+
----
Switched to context "my-eks".
----
+
If you receive an error that begins `error: no context exists with the name`, ensure you are using the `NAME` of the cluster listed by `kubectl config get-contexts` and not the `CLUSTER` value.

. Check that your cluster has one or more nodes:
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl get nodes
----
+
The command returns a output similar to this example:
+
----
NAME                                           STATUS   ROLES    AGE   VERSION
ip-192-168-70-170.us-west-2.compute.internal   Ready    <none>   17h   v1.23.16-eks-48e63af
ip-192-168-9-230.us-west-2.compute.internal    Ready    <none>   17h   v1.23.16-eks-48e63af
----
+

> Make sure that some node are in the `Ready` status. 

Author: Need help with actions to take if not in Ready status.

.. Select *HTTP API* as the asset type.
.. Click *Next* to open the *Endpoint* configuration page.

. In the *Endpoint* page associated with *APIs / Add API*, set up an endpoint for your API:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-api-config-endpoint.png["Screenshot of 'Endpoint' page",width=90%]
+
. Copy the following URI into the *Implementation URI* field:
+
[source]
----
https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/
----
.. Type `80` in the *Port* field.
.. Click *Next* to open the *Review* page.

. In the *Review* page associated with *APIs / Add API*: 
.. Review your API configuration.
.. If necessary, use *Edit* to revise any configurations. 
.. When your configuration is correct, click *Save & Deploy*.
//TODO: YOU CAN'T GO BACK AND EDIT THIS CONFIG AFTER DEPLOYING IT?
+
Inside the API instance, all HTTP requests to the external IP associated with your Flex Gateway container that use port `80` are proxied to the `jsonplaceholder` service.
. From a terminal window, test the API instance:
..
.. Get your external IP address and use it to check that your IP redirects to the *Implementation URI*:
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl -n gateway get services
----  
+

> The command returns a result that looks similar to this one:

Author: ```suggestion
The command returns a result that looks similar to this example:
```

> +

Author: ```suggestion
+
[[get-services]]
```

----
NAME    TYPE         CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP     PORT(S)                    AGE
ingress LoadBalancer 10.100.222.333 123456.aws.com  80:12345/TCP,443:12345/TCP 7d7h
----
+
To protect the `IP` and `PORT` values, the example edits the values.
+

> .. Run the following `curl` a command, replacing `your_external_ip` with the `EXTERNAL-IP` from the preceding step:

Author: ```suggestion
.. Run the following `curl` command, replacing `your_external_ip` with the `EXTERNAL-IP` from the preceding step:
```

+
[source,curl]
----
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n" --request GET 'http://your_external_ip:80/users'
----
+
The command executes a `GET` request to the API, and then prints the resulting `200` status code, indicating success.
+

> To see from the *Implementation URI*, you can also run a simpler `curl` command to return an array of JSON objects, for example: 

Author: ```suggestion
You can also run a simpler `curl` command to return an array of JSON objects from the service's `/user` endpoint, for example: 
```

+
[source,curl]
----
$ curl http://you_external_url:80/users
----
+

> JSON Output:

Author: ```suggestion
JSON Output (edited):
```

. In *API Manager*, select *API Administration* from the side navigation panel.
. Find and click the name of the API that you created in <<create-api>>, such as *my-api*.
. Navigate to the *Policies* page for your API:
.. Select *Policies* from the side navigation panel.
.. In the *Policies* page, click *Add policy*.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-add-policy.png["Add Policy page with Add policy button",width=90%]
. In the page that opens, find the *Security* policy called *Basic Authentication - Simple* policy.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-basic-auth.png["Screenshot of 'Add a policy' page",width=90%]
+
Be careful to avoid selecting the similarly named policy for LDAP.
. Click *Next*.
. Configure a Basic Authentication policy:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-config-basic-auth.png["Screenshot of 'Configure Basic Authentication - Simple policy' page",width=80%]
+
.. For *User Name*, enter `user` instead of your real user name. 
+
You are not required to change this value if you do not need to protect it.
+
.. For *User Password*, enter `pw`.
+
You are not required to change this value if you do not need to protect it.
+
.. Click *Apply*.

> . Test the API instance:

Author: TODO TO SELF: maybe repeat the kubectl command that they rely on in the next step

Author: done

> .. Run the following `curl` a command _without_ authentication parameters, replacing `your_external_ip` with the `EXTERNAL-IP` from the preceding step:

Author: ```suggestion
.. Run the following `curl` a command _without_ authentication parameters, replacing `your_external_ip` with the `EXTERNAL-IP` from the <<get-services,preceding procedure>>:
```

+
[source,curl]
----
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n" --request GET 'http://your_external_ip:80/users'
----
+

> The command returns an error similar to this one because the URI lacks authentication parameters:

Author: ```suggestion
The command returns an error similar to the following one because the URI lacks authentication parameters:
```

= Getting Started with Flex Gateway on a Kubernetes Cluster
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:version-helm: 3.0.0

> Get started with Anypoint Flex Gateway on a Kubernetes cluster. Set up a Flex Gateway container that connects to Anypoint Platform in Connected Mode, and use the container to control local traffic to an API implementation. This guide covers the following high-level tasks:

Author: ```suggestion
Get started with Anypoint Flex Gateway on a Kubernetes cluster. Set up a Flex Gateway container that connects to Anypoint Platform in Connected Mode, and use the container to control traffic to an API implementation. This guide covers the following high-level tasks:
```

[[k8-cluster-reqs]]
== Kubernetes Cluster Requirements

The host for your Kubernetes cluster can be any xref:flex-review-prerequisites.adoc#software-requirements[supported Kubernetes provider], including common cloud-based services, such as Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS), Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS), or Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE).

To complete the procedures in this guide, you must create a Kubernetes cluster or use an existing one for your Flex Gateway deployment. This guide uses Helm to deploy your Flex Gateway container to a Kubernetes cluster and connect the container to Anypoint Platform. 

[IMPORTANT]
Do not rely on the <<min-cluster-reqs,minimum requirements listed for this guide>> in a _production environment_. The Kubernetes cluster required for the deployment procedure in this guide needs _only a small fraction_ of the compute resources required of a cluster in a typical production environment. 
//TODO: POINT TO ACTUAL REQUIREMENTS ONCE THEY ARE AVAILABLE

[[min-cluster-reqs]]
The minimum requirements for the Kubernetes cluster used _in this guide_ follow:

> * Minimal compute resources needed for the deployment procedure are _very unlikely_ to exceed the following values (equivalent to the EKS t3.micro instance type): 

Author: ```suggestion
* Compute resources needed for the deployment procedure are _very unlikely_ to exceed the following values (equivalent to the EKS t3.micro instance type): 
```

Before you begin, confirm that your Kubernetes cluster is available by following the steps in <<check-cluster>>, and review <<k8-cluster-reqs>> if you have not done so already. These prerequisites help avoid deployment errors. 

After confirming that your Kubernetes cluster is ready, complete the following steps:

. Run the Helm command for deploying your Flex Gateway container and connecting it to Anypoint Platform. 
+
[source,helm]
----
helm -n gateway upgrade -i --create-namespace \
--wait ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway \ 
--set-file registration.content=registration.yaml
----
+
This command creates the `gateway` namespace and `ingress` if they do not exist, and it creates or updates the `flex-gateway` Helm chart in the `flex-gateway` Helm repo. The command syntax for the Helm repository and chart names is `<helm-repo-name>/<helm-chart-name>`. 
+
When successful, the following occurs:
+
* The command prints a message indicating an upgrade to your `ingress` release:
+
----
Release "ingress" has been upgraded. Happy Helming!
NAME: ingress
LAST DEPLOYED: Mon Mar 13 22:44:11 2023
NAMESPACE: gateway
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
----
+

> The REVISION increments by `1` each time you run this command with the same namespace, repository, and chart names. For example, if you run the command a second time, you find a new revision number (`REVISION: 2`). The `LAST DEPLOYED` date reflects the date of that revision. 

Author: ```suggestion
The REVISION increments by `1` each time you run this command with the same namespace, repository, and chart name. For example, if you run the command a second time, you find a new revision number (`REVISION: 2`). The `LAST DEPLOYED` date reflects the date of that revision. 
```

.. Navigate to your registered container in the *Flex Gateways* page that opens:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-my-gateway-rtm.png["Flex Gateway container my-gateway in Runtime Manager"]
+
You can use the search field in the page to narrow the list of containers.

.. Make sure that the status of your new container is *Connected*. 
+
If the status is *Disconnected*, it is likely that the cluster configuration is incorrect. This issue can occur, for example, if the `helm -n gateway upgrade` times out before an `ingress` is created or if the cluster does not allow for a `LoadBalancer` resource. Check <<troubleshooting>> for more information. 

[[create-api]]
== Step 5: Publish and Deploy a Simple API to Your Flex Gateway Container

Create and deploy a simple API to your Flex Gateway container in Anypoint API Manager. 

. In Runtime Manager, click the *View APIs* menu option for your container to navigate to the container's *View APIs* page.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-view-apis.png["View APIs menu item for a Flex Gateway container"]
+
Alternatively, you can navigate to API Manager from the Anypoint Platform menu.

> //TODO: FIX IMAGE lists my-gw... not my-gateway

Author: ```suggestion

```

. From a terminal window, test the API instance:
..
.. Get your external IP address and use it to check that your IP redirects to the *Implementation URI*:
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl -n gateway get services
----  
+
The command returns a result that looks similar to this example:
+
[[get-services]]
----
NAME    TYPE         CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP     PORT(S)                    AGE
ingress LoadBalancer 10.100.222.333 123456.aws.com  80:12345/TCP,443:12345/TCP 7d7h
----
+
To protect the `IP` and `PORT` values, the example edits the values.
+
.. Run the following `curl` command, replacing `your_external_ip` with the `EXTERNAL-IP` from the preceding step:
+
[source,curl]
----
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n" --request GET 'http://your_external_ip:80/users'
----
+
The command executes a `GET` request to the API, and then prints the resulting `200` status code, indicating success.
+
You can also run a simpler `curl` command to return an array of JSON objects from the service's `/user` endpoint, for example: 
+
[source,curl]
----

> $ curl http://you_external_url:80/users

Author: ```suggestion
$ curl http://your_external_url:80/users
```

+
----
{"error":"Authentication Attempt Failed"}
----
+
To address the error, return to the policy configuration page for your API in API Gateway, edit the policy configuration, and rerun the `curl` commands.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-config-basic-auth-edit-dialogue.png["Screenshot of 'Configure Basic Authentication - Simple policy' edit dialogue",width=90%]
+
The page for editing the credentials looks similar to this one:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-config-basic-auth-edit.png["Screenshot of 'Configure Basic Authentication - Simple policy' configuration page",width=90%]

[[troubleshooting]]
== Troubleshooting
//iterative troubleshooting info to add as needed:
//TODO: ADD WHAT TO DO IF THE CLUSTER APPEARS IN RTM BUT IS IN A DISCONNECTED STATE.

If you encounter an error, look for a resolution here. 

* If Docker is not started, a `docker` command returns an error message similar to this one:
+
----
Error response from daemon: Bad response from Docker engine
----
+
If you get this error, you need to start Docker.

* If you lose your connection to Anypoint Platform, the following error occurs:

> +

Author: TODO: what command was invoked?

Author: adding

[[k8-cluster-reqs]]
== Cluster Requirements

The host for your Kubernetes cluster can be any xref:flex-review-prerequisites.adoc#software-requirements[supported Kubernetes provider], including common cloud-based services, such as Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS), Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS), or Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE).

To complete the procedures in this guide, you must create a Kubernetes cluster or use an existing one for your Flex Gateway deployment. In this guide, you use Helm to deploy your Flex Gateway container to a Kubernetes cluster and connect the container to Anypoint Platform. 

[[min-cluster-reqs]]
The following minimum requirements apply to a small Kubernetes cluster used for demonstration purposes in this guide and _do not apply to requirements of a production environment_:
//TODO: POINT TO PROD REQUIREMENTS ONCE THEY ARE AVAILABLE. 
//Create story

* At least 1 node.

* Support for the creation of a `Service` resource of the `LoadBalancer` type.
+
The deployment process creates a resource of this type by default. To avoid deployment errors, your cluster must support this process.

> * Compute resources needed for the deployment procedure are _very unlikely_ to exceed the following values (equivalent to the EKS t3.micro instance type): 

Author: I agree with the advise to see what the perf engineers find. I'd guess these min values are prob way too high for what's needed for our simple cluster here in this guide (vs. a prod cluster used for much heavier duty).

Author: And maybe we can say in the separate prod req/perf doc for k8 what Flex alone adds to anybody's prod cluster reqs. I'd guess it's not much. So people would just add in whatever bit Flex adds to their overall estimate of compute resources needed for their prod clusters.

= Getting Started with Flex Gateway on a Kubernetes Cluster
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:version-helm: 3.0.0

> Get started with Anypoint Flex Gateway on a Kubernetes cluster. Set up a Flex Gateway container that connects to Anypoint Platform, and use the container to control traffic to an API implementation. This guide covers the following high-level tasks:

Reviewer 2: IMHO, it's better to use the concept of deployment when dealing about k8s:
```suggestion
Get started with Anypoint Flex Gateway on a Kubernetes cluster. Set up a Flex Gateway deployment that connects to Anypoint Platform, and use the deployment to control traffic to an API implementation. This guide covers the following high-level tasks:
```

> Get started with Anypoint Flex Gateway on a Kubernetes cluster. Set up a Flex Gateway container that connects to Anypoint Platform, and use the container to control traffic to an API implementation. This guide covers the following high-level tasks:

Reviewer 2: I find the part of "to an API implementation" a bit strange. What do you think about something like "and use the Deployment to route traffic to your APIs" or "and use the Deployment to route traffic to your services"

> Get started with Anypoint Flex Gateway on a Kubernetes cluster. Set up a Flex Gateway deployment that connects to Anypoint Platform, and use the deployment to control traffic to an API implementation. This guide covers the following high-level tasks:

Author: ```suggestion
Get started with Anypoint Flex Gateway on a Kubernetes cluster. Set up a Flex Gateway deployment that connects to Anypoint Platform, and use the deployment to route traffic to your API. This guide covers the following high-level tasks:
```

//TODO: VERIFY not Windows x86

//docker prereq
* {empty}
include::partial$prerequisites.adoc[tag=docker]
+
Run `docker --version` from a terminal window to find out if this tool is installed. If you need to install Docker, try https://www.docker.com/[Docker Desktop^]. 

//helm prereq
* {empty}
include::partial$prerequisites.adoc[tag=helm] 
+
Run `helm version` from a terminal window to find out if this tool is installed and check the version. To install or upgrade, use the https://helm.sh/[Helm^] website. 

//kubectl prereq to select cluster prior to deployment
* {empty}
include::partial$prerequisites.adoc[tag=kubectl]
+
Run `kubectl version --output=yaml` from a terminal window to find out if this tool is installed. If not, find `kubectl` among the installation tools available through the https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/[Kubernetes documentation^]. 

//curl prereq to test the API with flex
* {empty}
include::partial$prerequisites.adoc[tag=curl]
+
Run `curl --version` from a terminal window to find out if this tool is installed. If not, you can download it with a package manager for your machine. 

[[k8-cluster-reqs]]
== Cluster Requirements

> The host for your Kubernetes cluster can be any xref:flex-review-prerequisites.adoc#software-requirements[supported Kubernetes provider], including common cloud-based services, such as Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS), Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS), or Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE).

Reviewer 2: Do we have a list of supported k8s providers?

Author: [Here's what we have](https://dev-docs-internal.kqa.msap.io/beta-flex-gateway-get-well/gateway/1.4/flex-review-prerequisites#software-requirements). Not sure if complete. It says:

> A private cloud or data center.
> 
> Or, a cloud provider such as the following:
> 
> Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)
> 
> Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS)
> 
> Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)

[[min-cluster-reqs]]
The following minimum requirements apply to a small Kubernetes cluster used for demonstration purposes in this guide and _do not apply to requirements of a production environment_:
//TODO: POINT TO PROD REQUIREMENTS ONCE THEY ARE AVAILABLE. 
//Create story

* At least 1 node.

* Support for the creation of a `Service` resource of the `LoadBalancer` type.
+
The deployment process creates a resource of this type by default. To avoid deployment errors, your cluster must support this process.

* Compute resources needed for the deployment procedure are _very unlikely_ to exceed the following values (equivalent to the EKS t3.micro instance type): 

** vCPU: 2 vCPUs
** Memory: 1 GiB
** Network: Up to 5 Gigabit
** Max ENI: 2
** Max IPs: 4 

To determine whether your cluster is ready for the <<deploy-flex, deployment procedure>>, it is important to review <<check-cluster>> _before starting_ the deployment. The checks require you to run a set of `kubectl` commands.

[[install-flex]]

> == Step 1: Install Flex Gateway

Reviewer 2: We might want to replace "Install" with "Deploy" which is more common in k8s language

Author: Need to reconcile with the other "deployment" to the cluster. Maybe there's another word for that process though. Let's discuss.

Author: see next comment and suggested changes related to this.

if ok, I will commit them to avoid the SoD.

> Use Docker to install the Flex Gateway Docker image.

Reviewer 2: Just a suggestion, it's common to use the word "pull" when dealing with images rather than "install"
```suggestion
Use Docker to pull the Flex Gateway Docker image.
```

> . Start your Docker application.

Reviewer 2: "Start your Docker application" might be confused with running a docker container. What do you think about renaming this to something like "Check that docker is running" with `docker info`?

Author: Good idea! TODO

Author: TODO: Check if we should also add in this section "The container runs until you stop the process or close the terminal window in which it is running."

Reviewer 2: > TODO: Check if we should also add in this section "The container runs until you stop the process or close the terminal window in which it is running."

Not in this case, since the registration command exits after it's finished

. From a terminal window, prepare a directory for a Flex Gateway registration file (`registration.yaml`).
.. Create a directory:
+
[source,mkdir]
----
mkdir flex-registration
----
.. Navigate to the new directory:
+
[source,cd]
----
cd flex-registration
----

. Log in to https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/login/[Anypoint Platform^] and select *Runtime Manager*.
. From Runtime Manager, locate the procedure for registering Flex Gateway:
.. Click *Flex Gateways* in the side navigation panel.
.. Click *Add Gateway*.
.. Select *Kubernetes*.
.. In the Kubernetes page, locate the command in the *Register your gateway* section:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-add-gateway-rtm.png["Add registration code block from Add a Flex Gateway page"]
+
The highlighted command block includes your unique organization ID and a temporary token. 

. In your terminal window, copy the command block from Runtime Manager into your `/flex-registration` directory.
+
Notice that Runtime Manager provides the required organization and token values.

. Before running the command, replace `<gateway-name>` at the end of the command block with a _unique_ name for your Flex Gateway container, such as `my-gateway`.
+

> The name that you provide for your Flex Gateway container must be unique within the scope of your Anypoint Platform organization and environment. Completing this registration step is required once _and allowed no more than once_ per named container and organization.

Reviewer 2: Here we should try to reference the flex gateway, but not the container
```suggestion
The name that you provide for your gateway must be unique within the scope of your Anypoint Platform organization and environment. Completing this registration step is required once _and allowed no more than once_ per named gateway and organization.
```

Author: Sure. Can we refer to Flex in this context as a "Flex Gateway _instance_" or what ? We are not supposed to use "Flex" alone like. What exactly are we registering? Thx!

Reviewer 2: We are registering one "Flex Gateway instance" that can later be run in multiple replicas. It might be a bit difficult to explain it in this comments, we can sync to discuss this

Author: TODO: what is the role of flex

. Run the edited command from your terminal window.
+

> When successful, the command produces a `registration.yaml` in your `/flex-registration` directory and provides the following message in your terminal window:

Reviewer 2: I suggest using a dot at the begging to show that it's a relative path directory
```suggestion
When successful, the command produces a `registration.yaml` in your `./flex-registration` directory and provides the following message in your terminal window:
```

+
----
Starting registration, please be patient.
Registration completed, the configuration files were written 
in directory "/registration". For security, modify the file permissions 
to restrict production scenario access to the user running flex.
----
+
Note that the message in the terminal window refers to a `/registration` directory that resides within the Docker container. 
+
Use `sudo` if you encounter file permission issues when running this command. If your token expires before you run the command, a `400 Bad Request` error occurs, so you need to refresh the Runtime Manager page to generate a new token and run the modified command that appears on the page.

[[create-repo]]
== Step 3: Create a Repository for the Helm Chart

Create a local repository that stores a Helm chart with your Flex Gateway container's configuration. Note that you can get more information about the properties of the Helm chart for Flex Gateway in https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/flex-gateway/flex-gateway[ArtifactHUB^].

> . Create a Helm repository named `flex-gateway` for your Helm chart: 

Reviewer 2: The `helm repo add` command adds a remote repository, but it does not create the repository

> . Create a Helm repository named `flex-gateway` for your Helm chart: 

Author: ```suggestion
. Add a Helm repository named `flex-gateway` for your Helm chart: 
```

Author: Is this a local repo for the chart sort of similar to a local git repo vs. the remote?

Author: see suggestion ☝️ . If ok, I will commit to avoid SoD. Same comment re SoD everywhere. I need to commit the suggestions.

+
[source,helm]
----
helm repo add flex-gateway https://flex-packages.anypoint.mulesoft.com/helm
----
+

> The command either creates a repository or skips the repository creation process if a Helm repository with that name exists already:

Author: ```suggestion
The command either adds the repository or skips this process if a Helm repository with that name exists already on your machine:
```

----

. Run `helm repo up`.
+
The command returns the following message:
+
----
Hang tight while we grab the latest from your chart repositories...
...Successfully got an update from the "flex-gateway" chart repository
Update Complete. ⎈Happy Helming!⎈
----
+
If you have more than one Helm repository on your machine, the message in your terminal window lists all of them.

[[deploy-flex]]
== Step 4: Deploy and Connect Flex Gateway

Use Helm to deploy a Flex Gateway container to a node in your cluster and connect it to Anypoint Platform. After deploying, use Runtime Manager to verify that the container is present and connected to Anypoint Platform. 

Before you begin: 
 
Confirm that your Kubernetes cluster is available by following the steps in <<check-cluster>>. Review <<k8-cluster-reqs>> if you have not done so already. These prerequisites help avoid deployment errors. 

After confirming that your Kubernetes cluster is ready, complete the following steps:

. Run the Helm command for deploying your Flex Gateway container and connecting it to Anypoint Platform. 
+
[source,helm]
----
helm -n gateway upgrade -i --create-namespace \
--wait ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway \ 

> --set-file registration.content=registration.yaml

Reviewer 2: Since the guide is for connected mode, let's add this flag as well
```suggestion
helm -n gateway upgrade -i --create-namespace \
--wait ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway \ 
--set gateway.mode=connected \
--set-file registration.content=registration.yaml
```

Author: Thank you! I was wondering why we didn't have something like that especially since `local` seems to be the default per https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/flex-gateway/flex-gateway.

Author: Oh, note that this step comes from the RTM k8 config step. Perhaps that should also be updated.

Reviewer 2: > Oh, note that this step comes from the RTM k8 config step. Perhaps that should also be updated.

Indeed

----
+

> This command creates the `gateway` namespace and `ingress` if they do not exist. The command syntax for the Helm repository and chart names is `<helm-repo-name>/<helm-chart-name>`. 

Author: TODO: Discuss " This command creates the `gateway` namespace and `ingress` if they do not exist" with Seba

Author: revised given feedback from Seba "ingress release" not "ingress"

> This command creates the `gateway` namespace and `ingress` if they do not exist, and it creates or updates the `flex-gateway` Helm chart in the `flex-gateway` Helm repo. The command syntax for the Helm repository and chart names is `<helm-repo-name>/<helm-chart-name>`. 

Reviewer 2: > This command creates the `gateway` namespace and `ingress`

From this sentence I would understand that it creates two namespaces (gateway and ingress), but it only creates the first one

Author: What is the `ingress` part of the command doing. I believe the command returns a message saying "creating ingress" or similar.

Reviewer 2: `gateway` is the namespace where it's installed and `ingress` is the release name. You can install multiple releases in the same namespace as long as they have different names

> This command creates the `gateway` namespace and `ingress` if they do not exist, and it creates or updates the `flex-gateway` Helm chart in the `flex-gateway` Helm repo. The command syntax for the Helm repository and chart names is `<helm-repo-name>/<helm-chart-name>`. 

Reviewer 2: It does not update the chart (that is done with the `helm repo up` command)
```suggestion
This command creates the `gateway` namespace and `ingress` if they do not exist. The command syntax for the Helm repository and chart names is `<helm-repo-name>/<helm-chart-name>`. 
```

+
When successful, the following occurs:
+
* The command prints a message indicating an upgrade to your `ingress` release:
+
----
Release "ingress" has been upgraded. Happy Helming!
NAME: ingress
LAST DEPLOYED: Mon Mar 13 22:44:11 2023
NAMESPACE: gateway
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
----
+
The REVISION increments by `1` each time you run this command with the same namespace, repository, and chart names. For example, if you run the command a second time, you find a new revision number (`REVISION: 2`). The `LAST DEPLOYED` date reflects the date of that revision.
+
If you receive an UPGRADE FAILED response, see <<upgrade-failed,troubleshooting>> information about this issue. 

* A new Flex Gateway container is running in your terminal window.
+

> The container runs until you stop the process or close the terminal window in which it is running.

Reviewer 2: This is for docker, but not for k8s since it runs in a remote machine

. Return to Runtime Manager: 
.. Select *&#8592; Flex Gateways* from the side navigation panel of the Kubernetes *Add a Flex Gateway* page. 
+

> image::gateway-quickstart-k8-return-to-gateway-list.png["Return to Flex Gateway container list in Runtime Manager"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-return-to-gateway-list.png["Return to Flex Gateway list in Runtime Manager"]
```

.. Navigate to your registered container in the *Flex Gateways* page that opens:
+

> image::gateway-quickstart-k8-my-gateway-rtm.png["Flex Gateway container my-gateway in Runtime Manager"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-my-gateway-rtm.png["Flex Gateway my-gateway in Runtime Manager"]
```

+

> You can use the search field in the page to narrow the list of containers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the search field in the page to narrow the list of gateways.
```

Author: tweaked suggestion ☝️

> .. Make sure that the status of your new container is *Connected*. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Make sure that the status of your gateway is *Connected*. 
```

+

> If the status is *Disconnected*, it is likely that the cluster configuration is incorrect. This issue can occur, for example, if the `helm -n gateway upgrade` times out before an `ingress` is created or if the cluster does not allow for a `LoadBalancer` resource. Check <<troubleshooting>> for more information. 

Reviewer 2: What do you mean with `ingress`?

Author: TODO: let's discuss ingress

[[create-api]]

> == Step 5: Publish and Deploy a Simple API to Your Flex Gateway Container

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Step 5: Publish and Deploy a Simple API to Flex Gateway
```

> Create and deploy a simple API to your Flex Gateway container in Anypoint API Manager. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create and deploy a simple API to your gateway in Anypoint API Manager. 
```

Author: "Flex Gateway instance" ?

> . In Runtime Manager, click the *View APIs* menu option for your container to navigate to the container's *View APIs* page.

Reviewer 2: It seems that the word "container" is used twice here. Nevertheless, I think we should try to avoid using "container" since here we are dealing with the more abstract concept of a "Flex gateway" that could be deployed in containers or VMs.

+

> image::gateway-quickstart-k8-view-apis.png["View APIs menu item for a Flex Gateway container"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-view-apis.png["View APIs menu item for Flex Gateway"]
```

Author: tweaked suggestion

+
Alternatively, you can navigate to API Manager from the Anypoint Platform menu.
. From the page that opens, click *Add API* (and if present, *Add new API*) to navigate to the *APIs / Add API* page in API Manager.
. From *APIs / Add API*, configure an API by working through the API configuration pages, starting with the *Runtime* configuration:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-select-gateway-for-api.png["Add API page with Flex Gateway Runtime and my-gateway selected"]
+
.. From the *Runtime* configuration page, select *Flex Gateway* as your runtime.

> //TODO: WHY DO WE CALL FLEX A RUNTIME?

Reviewer 2: We call it runtime to differentiate it from the control plane (Anypoint). Both flex and mule runtimes handle the actual traffic

> .. Find and select your container in the *Select a gateway* area of the page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Find and select your gateway in the *Select a gateway* area of the page.
```

Author: tweaked to make it "Flex Gateway instance" here and elsewhere.

+
Use the search field to locate it, if necessary.
.. Click *Next* to open the *API* page.

. In the *API* configuration page associated with *APIs / Add API*, provide an API name and asset type:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-api-config-api.png["Screenshot of 'API' page",width=60%]
+
.. Click *Create an API*.
.. Provide an API name, such as *my-api*.
.. Select *HTTP API* as the asset type.

> .. Click *Next* to open the *Endpoint* configuration page.

Reviewer 2: Should we document that they can use an existing api as well?

Author: Yes, we can. Is there one we could use? Or should we just note generally that they can select one. Perhaps selecting an existing API is the most common case for them anyway?

Author: check API Manager docs for this scenario

. In the *Endpoint* page associated with *APIs / Add API*, set up an endpoint for your API:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-api-config-endpoint.png["Screenshot of 'Endpoint' page",width=90%]
+
.. Copy the following URI into the *Implementation URI* field:
+
[source]
----
https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/
----
.. Type `80` in the *Port* field.
.. Click *Next* to open the *Review* page.

. In the *Review* page associated with *APIs / Add API*: 
.. Review your API configuration.
.. If necessary, use *Edit* to revise any configurations. 
.. When your configuration is correct, click *Save & Deploy*.

> //TODO: YOU CAN'T GO BACK AND EDIT THIS CONFIG AFTER DEPLOYING IT?

Reviewer 2: You can

Author: TODO: How do you do that? Let's chat. I'd like to just point them to a procedure that exists somewhere in the docs, but I didn't find one.

+
Inside the API instance, all HTTP requests to the external IP associated with your Flex Gateway container that use port `80` are proxied to the `jsonplaceholder` service.
. From a terminal window, test the API instance:
.. Get your external IP address and use it to check that your IP redirects to the *Implementation URI*:
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl -n gateway get services
----  
+
The command returns a result that looks similar to this example:
+
[[get-services]]
----
NAME    TYPE         CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP     PORT(S)                    AGE
ingress LoadBalancer 10.100.222.333 123456.aws.com  80:12345/TCP,443:12345/TCP 7d7h
----
+

> To protect the `IP` and `PORT` values, the example edits the values.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this sentence, what do you mean?

Author: I invented some fake IP values to avoid using real ones.

Author: NAME is a service identifier in k8 in the case where you are getting the services with kubectl -n gateway get services

+
.. Run the following `curl` command, replacing `your_external_ip` with _your_ `EXTERNAL-IP` from the preceding step:
+
[source,curl]
----
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n" --request GET 'http://your_external_ip:80/users'
----
+
The command executes a `GET` request to the API, and then prints the resulting `200` status code, indicating success.
+
You can also run a simpler `curl` command to return an array of JSON objects from the service's `/users` endpoint, for example: 
+
[source,curl]
----

> $ curl http://_your_external_ip_:80/users

Reviewer 2: Justo to be consistent with the previous command
```suggestion
$ curl http://your_external_ip_:80/users
```

Author: fixing first bc following have the prepended underscore

----  

== Step 6: Secure Your API Using the Basic Authentication Policy

Use API Manager to add a basic authentication policy to your API.

. In *API Manager*, select *API Administration* from the side navigation panel.
. Find and click the name of the API that you created in <<create-api>>, such as *my-api*.
. Navigate to the *Policies* page for your API:
.. Select *Policies* from the side navigation panel.
.. In the *Policies* page, click *Add policy*.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-add-policy.png["Add Policy page with Add policy button",width=90%]
. In the page that opens, find the *Security* policy called *Basic Authentication - Simple* policy.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-basic-auth.png["Screenshot of 'Add a policy' page",width=90%]
+
Be careful to avoid selecting the similarly named policy for LDAP.
. Click *Next*.
. Configure a Basic Authentication policy:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-config-basic-auth.png["Screenshot of 'Configure Basic Authentication - Simple policy' page",width=80%]
+
.. For *User Name*, enter `user` instead of your real user name. 
+
You are not required to change this value if you do not need to protect it.
+
.. For *User Password*, enter `pw`.
+

> You are not required to change this value if you do not need to protect it.

Reviewer 2: What do you mean with `You are not required to change this value`? This are required fields though

Author: They can use their actual username and password. They don't have to change the values in those fields, but it could be safer to change them. The issue is that I sometimes can't get my values to update in API Manager fields. Bug?

Author: ```suggestion
You are not required to change this value if you do not need to protect it.
+
.. For *User Password*, enter `pw`.
+
If the field is pre-populated with a value, you can keep the value or change it if you need to protect it.
```

+
.. Click *Apply*.

. Test the API instance:
.. Use `kubectl` to get your external IP address again so that you can use it in the next step:
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl -n gateway get services
----  
.. Run the following `curl` a command _without_ authentication parameters, replacing `_your_external_ip_` with the `EXTERNAL-IP` returned by preceding step:
+
[source,curl]
----
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n" --request GET 'http://_your_external_ip_:80/users'
----
+
The command returns an error similar to the following one because the URI lacks authentication parameters:
+
----
{"error":"Registered authentication is set to HTTP basic authentication 

> but there was no security context on the session."}

Reviewer 2: When run with the `-s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n"` options it just returns 401 (unauthorized status code)

Author: oh, right. I was using the simpler curl command to return that... Good catch, thank you!

Author: adding related commit suggestions above

----
+
.. Run the following `curl` a command _with_ authentication parameters, replacing `your_external_ip` with your `EXTERNAL-IP` from the preceding step:
+
[source,curl]
----
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n" --request GET 'http://your_external_ip:80/users' -u user:pw
----
+
The command prints the resulting `200` status code, indicating success:
+
----
200
----
+
The `user` and `password` parameters (`user:pw`) must match the values you specified when you applied the policy. If you enter incorrect authentication parameters, the following error occurs:
+
----
{"error":"Authentication Attempt Failed"}

> ----

Reviewer 2: Same as before, it just returns 401 (unauthorized status code)

----
+
If you get this error, you need to start Docker.

[[bad-request]]
* The following error can occur when you use `docker run` to register your Flex Gateway container:
+
----
[flexctl][error] reg facade call returned error response:
HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
----
+
The reason for this error is available within the error message. Common causes include: 

[[name-already-exists]]
** `an active target with the same name already exists in this organization and environment`. 
+
To avoid this issue, provide a _unique name_ for your Flex Gateway container when running the <<reg-command, registration command>>. Note that you _cannot reuse the same name_ even if a previous registration with that name was successful. When this error occurs, the command generates an _empty_ `registration.yaml`, which prevents re-registration _and_ produces and error when you try to use the file when deploying the container to your cluster. 

[[no-token]]
** `no valid registration token was found`
+
To avoid this issue, generate a new token for the command by refreshing the *Add a Flex Gateway* page for Kubernetes and rerun the <<reg-command, registration command>>.

> 

Reviewer 2: I think we can add the registration issues in this part of the docs https://docs.mulesoft.com/gateway/latest/flex-troubleshoot-reg

Author: will do, thx!

[[cluster_unreachable]]
* If your cluster is not running when you attempt to deploy Flex Gateway using `helm`, the following error can occur:
+
----
Error: Kubernetes cluster unreachable: 
the server could not find the requested resource
----
+

> You can check whether that your cluster host is running your cluster, for example:

Reviewer 2: I think this sentence is a bit confusing, what would you like to say?

+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl cluster-info
----
+
If the cluster is up, the command returns a result similar to this one:
+
----
Kubernetes control plane is running at https://34.30.50.119
GLBCDefaultBackend is running at https://34.30.50.119/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/default-http-backend:http/proxy
KubeDNS is running at https://34.30.50.119/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/kube-dns:dns/proxy
Metrics-server is running at https://34.30.50.119/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/https:metrics-server:/proxy
----
+
If the cluster is not up, the command can return a result similar to this one:
+
----
To further debug and diagnose cluster problems, use 'kubectl cluster-info dump'.
error: the server doesn't have a resource type "services"
----
+
For additional information, see <<check-cluster>>.

[[helm-troubleshooting]]
=== Helm Issues

Troubleshoot errors returned by a `helm` command:

[[upgrade-failed]]

> * If the Helm upgrade command fails to generate a `Service` resource of the `LoadBalancer` type, the command hangs for 5 minutes (due to the `--wait`) flag in the command and produces the following timeout error:

Reviewer 2: This is correct, but I'm afraid that customers would think that if they get the timeout error then it means that their cluster failed to create a `Service` of type `LoadBalancer` (if they make this assumption, then it would be incorrect because there are other issues that could cause this). What do you think about making this section a bit more general, something like:

---
If the Helm upgrade command hangs for 5 minutes (due to the `--wait`) flag in the command and produces the following timeout error, then it means that the deployment failed:

```
----
Error: UPGRADE FAILED: timed out waiting for the condition
----
```

This error typically means that your cluster configuration is incorrect or that your cluster configuration tool does not support this process. See `<<k8-cluster-reqs>>`. You can troubleshoot further by running the following commands:
- `kubectl -n gateway describe deployment`
- `kubectl -n gateway describe service`
---

With the last two commands, they can troubleshoot the deployment and service, which will point them to the error

Author: Perfect, thank you!!!!!

Author: done

+
----
Error: UPGRADE FAILED: timed out waiting for the condition
----
+
This error typically means that your cluster configuration is incorrect or that your cluster configuration tool does not support this process. See <<k8-cluster-reqs>>.

* If the `registration.yaml` file is invalid when you pass it to the Helm during deployment of the Flex Gateway container, the following error results:
+
----
Error: UPGRADE FAILED: execution error at (flex-gateway/templates/deployment.yaml:4:10):
registerSecretName, registration.content or registration.secretName is required!
----
+

> When this error occurs, check the `registration.yaml`. Make sure the file is not empty. If the file is empty, re-register your Flex Gateway container with a new, unique name to generate a new `registration.yaml` (see <<register-flex>>) and rerun the procedures that follow the registration step. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When this error occurs, check the `registration.yaml`. Make sure the file is not empty. If the file is empty, re-register your gateway with a new, unique name to generate a new `registration.yaml` (see <<register-flex>>) and rerun the procedures that follow the registration step. 
```

Author: tweaked to add "instance"

//TODO: this was from Israel. Not clear what upgrade error and 
//      why we would uninstall the ingress for the namespace. 
//Israel: "If you receive an upgrade error when execute the command, you can  
//         remove the ingress released chart or omit the released argument:"
//
//## Command to remove ingress chart released
//helm -n <namespace> uninstall ingress
//
// TODO: WHEN WOULD WE OMIT -i --create-namespace --wait?
//## Command without install ingress chart arguments
// helm -n <namespace> upgrade \
//ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway \
//--set-file registration.content=<registration_file>

[[check-cluster]]
== Check Your Cluster

> Before deploying a Flex Gateway container to your Kubernetes cluster in <<deploy-flex>>, you must make sure that your cluster is ready. To check, you can use `kubectl` to list and select (use) a cluster and to get a list of nodes that the cluster uses. If any steps in this section fail, the deployment process is likely to produce errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before deploying Flex Gateway to your Kubernetes cluster in <<deploy-flex>>, you must make sure that your cluster is ready. To check, you can use `kubectl` to list and select (use) a cluster and to get a list of nodes that the cluster uses. If any steps in this section fail, the deployment process is likely to produce errors.
```

> To prevent potential timeout and connectivity errors when running procedures in this guide, avoid relying on simpler tools, such as minikube, to create a local cluster unless you are experienced with the tool's cluster configuration details and have the expertise necessary to make the cluster meet the <<k8-cluster-reqs>>. 

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit unsure about saying that the customer shouldn't rely on simpler tools, because it might restrict their options too much. What do you think about just saying that the tools they use must fulfill the required prerequisites?

----
+
Adding the path to any additional cluster context files on your machine enables the `kubectl config get-contexts` to list them and for you to use them.
+
For more detail, see the https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/organize-cluster-access-kubeconfig/[Kubernetes documentation^] on the `kubeconfig` file. 

. Provide the name of a cluster into which you plan to deploy a Flex Gateway container.
+
The following example uses the cluster `my-eks`, identified in the cluster list example: 
+
----
kubectl config use-context my-eks
----
+
The command switches to the selected cluster context and prints a message similar to this one:
+
----
Switched to context "my-eks".
----
+
If you receive an error that begins `error: no context exists with the name`, ensure you are using the `NAME` of the cluster listed by `kubectl config get-contexts` and not the `CLUSTER` value.

. Check that your cluster has one or more nodes:
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl get nodes
----
+
The command returns a output similar to this example:
+
----
NAME                                           STATUS   ROLES    AGE   VERSION

> ip-192-168-70-170.us-west-2.compute.internal   Ready    <none>   17h   v1.23.16-eks-48e63af

Author: ```suggestion
ip-192-168-77-7777.us-west-2.compute.internal   Ready    <none>   17h   v1.55.55-eks-55a66bc
```

> ip-192-168-9-230.us-west-2.compute.internal    Ready    <none>   17h   v1.23.16-eks-48e63af

Author: ```suggestion
ip-192-168-99-999.us-west-2.compute.internal    Ready    <none>   17h   v1.23.66-eks-66a66bc
```

> ip-192-168-9-230.us-west-2.compute.internal    Ready    <none>   17h   v1.23.16-eks-48e63af

Reviewer 2: We might want to use something different for the version values to avoid having to update them

Author: What would you suggest for the version examples?

Reviewer 2: I think something like `v1.x.x`

= Getting Started with Flex Gateway on a Kubernetes Cluster
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:version-helm: 3.0.0

Get started with Anypoint Flex Gateway on a Kubernetes cluster. Set up a Flex Gateway deployment that connects to Anypoint Platform, and use the deployment to route traffic to your API. This guide covers the following high-level tasks:

> * Installing, registering, deploying, and running a Flex Gateway container in Connected Mode. 

Author: ```suggestion
* Downloading, registering, deploying Flex Gateway in Connected Mode. 
```

> * Creating a simple API in Anypoint API Manager that runs on your Flex Gateway container. 

Author: ```suggestion
* Creating a simple API in Anypoint API Manager that runs on your gateway. 
```

. Run the edited command from your terminal window.
+
When successful, the command produces a `registration.yaml` in your `./flex-registration` directory and provides the following message in your terminal window:
+
----
Starting registration, please be patient.
Registration completed, the configuration files were written 
in directory "/registration". For security, modify the file permissions 
to restrict production scenario access to the user running flex.
----
+
Note that the message in the terminal window refers to a `/registration` directory that resides within the Docker container. 
+
Use `sudo` if you encounter file permission issues when running this command. If your token expires before you run the command, a `400 Bad Request` error occurs, so you need to refresh the Runtime Manager page to generate a new token and run the modified command that appears on the page.

[[create-repo]]
== Step 3: Create a Repository for the Helm Chart

> Create a local repository that stores a Helm chart with your Flex Gateway container's configuration. Note that you can get more information about the properties of the Helm chart for Flex Gateway in https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/flex-gateway/flex-gateway[ArtifactHUB^].

Author: ```suggestion
Add the Flex Gateway chart repository. Note that you can get more information about the properties of the Helm chart for Flex Gateway in https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/flex-gateway/flex-gateway[ArtifactHUB^].
```

Hang tight while we grab the latest from your chart repositories...
...Successfully got an update from the "flex-gateway" chart repository
Update Complete. ⎈Happy Helming!⎈
----
+
If you have more than one Helm repository on your machine, the message in your terminal window lists all of them.

[[deploy-flex]]
== Step 4: Deploy and Connect Flex Gateway

Use Helm to deploy a Flex Gateway container to a node in your cluster and connect it to Anypoint Platform. After deploying, use Runtime Manager to verify that the container is present and connected to Anypoint Platform. 

Before you begin: 
 
Confirm that your Kubernetes cluster is available by following the steps in <<check-cluster>>. Review <<k8-cluster-reqs>> if you have not done so already. These prerequisites help avoid deployment errors. 

After confirming that your Kubernetes cluster is ready, complete the following steps:

. Run the Helm command for deploying your Flex Gateway container and connecting it to Anypoint Platform. 
+
[source,helm]
----
helm -n gateway upgrade -i --create-namespace \
--wait ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway \ 
--set gateway.mode=connected \
--set-file registration.content=registration.yaml
----
+

> This command creates the `gateway` namespace and `ingress` if they do not exist. The command syntax for the Helm repository and chart names is `<helm-repo-name>/<helm-chart-name>`. 

Author: ```suggestion
This command creates the `gateway` namespace and `ingress` release if they do not exist. The command syntax for the Helm repository and chart names is `<helm-repo-name>/<helm-chart-name>`. 
```

Author: helm -n gateway list

NAME: ingress
LAST DEPLOYED: Mon Mar 13 22:44:11 2023
NAMESPACE: gateway
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
----
+
The REVISION increments by `1` each time you run this command with the same namespace, repository, and chart names. For example, if you run the command a second time, you find a new revision number (`REVISION: 2`). The `LAST DEPLOYED` date reflects the date of that revision.
+
If you receive an UPGRADE FAILED response, see <<upgrade-failed,troubleshooting>> information about this issue. 

* A new Flex Gateway container is running in your terminal window.

. Return to Runtime Manager: 
.. Select *&#8592; Flex Gateways* from the side navigation panel of the Kubernetes *Add a Flex Gateway* page. 
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-return-to-gateway-list.png["Return to Flex Gateway list in Runtime Manager"]
.. Navigate to your registered container in the *Flex Gateways* page that opens:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-my-gateway-rtm.png["Flex Gateway my-gateway in Runtime Manager"]
+
You can use the search field in the page to narrow the list of containers.

.. Make sure that the status of your new container is *Connected*. 
+

> If the status is *Disconnected*, it is likely that the cluster configuration is incorrect. This issue can occur, for example, if the `helm -n gateway upgrade` times out before an `ingress` is created or if the cluster does not allow for a `LoadBalancer` resource. Check <<troubleshooting>> for more information. 

Author: ```suggestion
If the status is *Disconnected*, it is likely that the cluster configuration is incorrect or there is a network issue. Check <<troubleshooting>> for more information. 
```

Author: TODO: will need to add troubleshooting info for both issues, putting timeout issue before network issue.

+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-api-config-endpoint.png["Screenshot of 'Endpoint' page",width=90%]
+
.. Copy the following URI into the *Implementation URI* field:
+
[source]
----
https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/
----
.. Type `80` in the *Port* field.
.. Click *Next* to open the *Review* page.

. In the *Review* page associated with *APIs / Add API*: 
.. Review your API configuration.
.. If necessary, use *Edit* to revise any configurations. 
.. When your configuration is correct, click *Save & Deploy*.
//TODO: YOU CAN'T GO BACK AND EDIT THIS CONFIG AFTER DEPLOYING IT?
+
Inside the API instance, all HTTP requests to the external IP associated with your Flex Gateway container that use port `80` are proxied to the `jsonplaceholder` service.
. From a terminal window, test the API instance:
.. Get your external IP address and use it to check that your IP redirects to the *Implementation URI*:
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl -n gateway get services
----  
+
The command returns a result that looks similar to this example:
+
[[get-services]]
----
NAME    TYPE         CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP     PORT(S)                    AGE

> ingress LoadBalancer 10.100.222.333 123456.aws.com  80:12345/TCP,443:12345/TCP 7d7h

Author: ```suggestion
ingress LoadBalancer 10.100.222.333 <123456.aws.com>  80:12345/TCP,443:12345/TCP 7d7h
```

TODO: ONLY CHANGE EXTERNAL IP

+
[source,curl]
----
$ curl http://_your_external_ip_:80/users
----  

== Step 6: Secure Your API Using the Basic Authentication Policy

Use API Manager to add a basic authentication policy to your API.

. In *API Manager*, select *API Administration* from the side navigation panel.
. Find and click the name of the API that you created in <<create-api>>, such as *my-api*.
. Navigate to the *Policies* page for your API:
.. Select *Policies* from the side navigation panel.
.. In the *Policies* page, click *Add policy*.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-add-policy.png["Add Policy page with Add policy button",width=90%]
. In the page that opens, find the *Security* policy called *Basic Authentication - Simple* policy.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-basic-auth.png["Screenshot of 'Add a policy' page",width=90%]
+
Be careful to avoid selecting the similarly named policy for LDAP.
. Click *Next*.
. Configure a Basic Authentication policy:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-config-basic-auth.png["Screenshot of 'Configure Basic Authentication - Simple policy' page",width=80%]
+
.. For *User Name*, enter `user` instead of your real user name. 
+

> You are not required to change this value if you do not need to protect it.

Author: ```suggestion
If the field is pre-populated with a value, you can keep the value or change it if you need to protect it.
```

* A new Flex Gateway container is running in your terminal window.

. Return to Runtime Manager: 
.. Select *&#8592; Flex Gateways* from the side navigation panel of the Kubernetes *Add a Flex Gateway* page. 
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-return-to-gateway-list.png["Return to Flex Gateway list in Runtime Manager"]
.. Navigate to your registered container in the *Flex Gateways* page that opens:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-my-gateway-rtm.png["Flex Gateway my-gateway in Runtime Manager"]
+
You can use the search field in the page to narrow the list of containers.

.. Make sure that the status of your new container is *Connected*. 
+
If the status is *Disconnected*, it is likely that the cluster configuration is incorrect. This issue can occur, for example, if the `helm -n gateway upgrade` times out before an `ingress` is created or if the cluster does not allow for a `LoadBalancer` resource. Check <<troubleshooting>> for more information. 

[[create-api]]
== Step 5: Publish and Deploy a Simple API to Your Flex Gateway Container

Create and deploy a simple API to your Flex Gateway container in Anypoint API Manager. 

> . In Runtime Manager, click the *View APIs* menu option for your container to navigate to the container's *View APIs* page.

Author: ```suggestion
. In Runtime Manager, click the *View APIs* menu option for your gateway to navigate to its *View APIs* page.
```

Author: re repetition, I was concerned an editor would say that the reference of "its" might not be 100% clear (even though seems clear to me :) )

+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-view-apis.png["View APIs menu item for a Flex Gateway container"]
+
Alternatively, you can navigate to API Manager from the Anypoint Platform menu.
. From the page that opens, click *Add API* (and if present, *Add new API*) to navigate to the *APIs / Add API* page in API Manager.
. From *APIs / Add API*, configure an API by working through the API configuration pages, starting with the *Runtime* configuration:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-select-gateway-for-api.png["Add API page with Flex Gateway Runtime and my-gateway selected"]
+
.. From the *Runtime* configuration page, select *Flex Gateway* as your runtime.

> //TODO: WHY DO WE CALL FLEX A RUNTIME?

Author: ```suggestion
```

+
.. Copy the following URI into the *Implementation URI* field:
+
[source]
----
https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/
----
.. Type `80` in the *Port* field.
.. Click *Next* to open the *Review* page.

. In the *Review* page associated with *APIs / Add API*: 
.. Review your API configuration.
.. If necessary, use *Edit* to revise any configurations. 
.. When your configuration is correct, click *Save & Deploy*.
//TODO: YOU CAN'T GO BACK AND EDIT THIS CONFIG AFTER DEPLOYING IT?
+
Inside the API instance, all HTTP requests to the external IP associated with your Flex Gateway container that use port `80` are proxied to the `jsonplaceholder` service.
. From a terminal window, test the API instance:
.. Get your external IP address and use it to check that your IP redirects to the *Implementation URI*:
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl -n gateway get services
----  
+
The command returns a result that looks similar to this example:
+
[[get-services]]
----
NAME    TYPE         CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP     PORT(S)                    AGE
ingress LoadBalancer 10.100.222.333 123456.aws.com  80:12345/TCP,443:12345/TCP 7d7h
----
+

> To protect the `IP` and `PORT` values, the example edits the values.

Author: ```suggestion
The `EXTERNAL-IP` value in the example is placeholder and not an actual value.
```

+
.. Run the following `curl` command, replacing `your_external_ip` with _your_ `EXTERNAL-IP` from the preceding step:
+
[source,curl]
----

> curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n" --request GET 'http://your_external_ip:80/users'

Author: ```suggestion
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n" --request GET 'http://_your_external_ip_:80/users'
```

. In the page that opens, find the *Security* policy called *Basic Authentication - Simple* policy.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-basic-auth.png["Screenshot of 'Add a policy' page",width=90%]
+
Be careful to avoid selecting the similarly named policy for LDAP.
. Click *Next*.
. Configure a Basic Authentication policy:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-config-basic-auth.png["Screenshot of 'Configure Basic Authentication - Simple policy' page",width=80%]
+
.. For *User Name*, enter `user` instead of your real user name. 
+
You are not required to change this value if you do not need to protect it.
+
.. For *User Password*, enter `pw`.
+
You are not required to change this value if you do not need to protect it.
+
.. Click *Apply*.

. Test the API instance:
.. Use `kubectl` to get your external IP address again so that you can use it in the next step:
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl -n gateway get services
----  
.. Run the following `curl` a command _without_ authentication parameters, replacing `_your_external_ip_` with the `EXTERNAL-IP` returned by preceding step:
+
[source,curl]
----
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n" --request GET 'http://_your_external_ip_:80/users'
----
+

> The command returns an error similar to the following one because the URI lacks authentication parameters:

Author: ```suggestion
The command returns a `401` because the URI lacks authentication parameters:
```

+
----

> {"error":"Registered authentication is set to HTTP basic authentication 

Author: ```suggestion
401
```

> but there was no security context on the session."}

Author: ```suggestion
```

----
+
.. Run the following `curl` a command _with_ authentication parameters, replacing `your_external_ip` with your `EXTERNAL-IP` from the preceding step:
+
[source,curl]
----
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n" --request GET 'http://your_external_ip:80/users' -u user:pw
----
+
The command prints the resulting `200` status code, indicating success:
+
----
200
----
+
The `user` and `password` parameters (`user:pw`) must match the values you specified when you applied the policy. If you enter incorrect authentication parameters, the following error occurs:
+
----

> {"error":"Authentication Attempt Failed"}

Author: ```suggestion
401
```

Troubleshoot errors returned by a `helm` command:

[[upgrade-failed]]
* If the Helm upgrade command fails to generate a `Service` resource of the `LoadBalancer` type, the command hangs for 5 minutes (due to the `--wait`) flag in the command and produces the following timeout error:
+
----
Error: UPGRADE FAILED: timed out waiting for the condition
----
+
This error typically means that your cluster configuration is incorrect or that your cluster configuration tool does not support this process. See <<k8-cluster-reqs>>.

* If the `registration.yaml` file is invalid when you pass it to the Helm during deployment of the Flex Gateway container, the following error results:
+
----
Error: UPGRADE FAILED: execution error at (flex-gateway/templates/deployment.yaml:4:10):
registerSecretName, registration.content or registration.secretName is required!
----
+
When this error occurs, check the `registration.yaml`. Make sure the file is not empty. If the file is empty, re-register your Flex Gateway container with a new, unique name to generate a new `registration.yaml` (see <<register-flex>>) and rerun the procedures that follow the registration step. 

> //TODO: this was from Israel. Not clear what upgrade error and 

Author: @seblaz Do you have any suggestions for this section? I'm not sure what to do with it. I can add it somewhere but am not sure if/how it applies to this doc.

Author: I might put those commands in another doc if they aren't needed in this one.

//      why we would uninstall the ingress for the namespace. 
//Israel: "If you receive an upgrade error when execute the command, you can  
//         remove the ingress released chart or omit the released argument:"
//
//## Command to remove ingress chart released
//helm -n <namespace> uninstall ingress
//
// TODO: WHEN WOULD WE OMIT -i --create-namespace --wait?
//## Command without install ingress chart arguments
// helm -n <namespace> upgrade \
//ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway \
//--set-file registration.content=<registration_file>

[[check-cluster]]
== Check Your Cluster

Before deploying a Flex Gateway container to your Kubernetes cluster in <<deploy-flex>>, you must make sure that your cluster is ready. To check, you can use `kubectl` to list and select (use) a cluster and to get a list of nodes that the cluster uses. If any steps in this section fail, the deployment process is likely to produce errors.

> To prevent potential timeout and connectivity errors when running procedures in this guide, avoid relying on simpler tools, such as minikube, to create a local cluster unless you are experienced with the tool's cluster configuration details and have the expertise necessary to make the cluster meet the <<k8-cluster-reqs>>. 

Author: ```suggestion
To prevent potential timeout and connectivity errors when running procedures in this guide, your cluster must meet the <<k8-cluster-reqs>>. 
```

. Provide the name of a cluster into which you plan to deploy a Flex Gateway container.
+
The following example uses the cluster `my-eks`, identified in the cluster list example: 
+
----
kubectl config use-context my-eks
----
+
The command switches to the selected cluster context and prints a message similar to this one:
+
----
Switched to context "my-eks".
----
+
If you receive an error that begins `error: no context exists with the name`, ensure you are using the `NAME` of the cluster listed by `kubectl config get-contexts` and not the `CLUSTER` value.

. Check that your cluster has one or more nodes:
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl get nodes
----
+
The command returns a output similar to this example:
+
----
NAME                                           STATUS   ROLES    AGE   VERSION
ip-192-168-70-170.us-west-2.compute.internal   Ready    <none>   17h   v1.23.16-eks-48e63af
ip-192-168-9-230.us-west-2.compute.internal    Ready    <none>   17h   v1.23.16-eks-48e63af
----
+
Make sure that some nodes are in the `Ready` status. 

> //TODO: WHAT specifically TO DO IF NOT Ready?

Author: Do we have any recommendation of what to do if the cluster isn't "Ready"?

Author: Is there anything more we should say?

Author: Seba: Check your Kubernetes provider.

> //TODO: SHOULD I replace NAME AND VERSION data with made-up data?

Author: ```suggestion
```

[[min-cluster-reqs]]
The following minimum requirements apply to a small Kubernetes cluster used for demonstration purposes in this guide and _do not apply to requirements of a production environment_:
//TODO: POINT TO PROD REQUIREMENTS ONCE THEY ARE AVAILABLE. 
//Create story

* At least 1 node.

* Support for the creation of a `Service` resource of the `LoadBalancer` type.
+
The deployment process creates a resource of this type by default. To avoid deployment errors, your cluster must support this process.

* Compute resources needed for the deployment procedure are _very unlikely_ to exceed the following values (equivalent to the EKS t3.micro instance type): 

** vCPU: 2 vCPUs
** Memory: 1 GiB
** Network: Up to 5 Gigabit
** Max ENI: 2
** Max IPs: 4 

To determine whether your cluster is ready for the <<deploy-flex, deployment procedure>>, it is important to review <<check-cluster>> _before starting_ the deployment. The checks require you to run a set of `kubectl` commands.

[[install-flex]]

> == Step 1: Install Flex Gateway

Author: ```suggestion
== Step 1: Download the Flex Gateway Image
```

Author: @seblaz What do you think about ☝️ and 👇 . Both use language similar to what Docker uses in their `docker pull` reference: https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/pull/

> Use Docker to pull the Flex Gateway Docker image.

Author: ```suggestion
Use Docker to download the Flex Gateway image from the Docker Hub registry.
```

> . Start your Docker application.

Author: ```suggestion
. Check that Docker is running by executing the following command in a terminal window:
+
[source,docker,subs=attributes+]
----
docker info
----
+
If you receive an error that includes `ERROR: Cannot connect to the Docker daemon`, troubleshoot your Docker installation.
```

Author: +
If you receive an error that includes `ERROR: Cannot connect to the Docker daemon`, launch the Docker application.

Author: if ok, I will commit to avoid SoD.

+
[source,helm]
----
helm -n gateway upgrade -i --create-namespace \
--wait ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway \ 
--set-file registration.content=registration.yaml
----
+
This command creates the `gateway` namespace and `ingress` if they do not exist. The command syntax for the Helm repository and chart names is `<helm-repo-name>/<helm-chart-name>`. 
+
When successful, the following occurs:
+
* The command prints a message indicating an upgrade to your `ingress` release:
+
----
Release "ingress" has been upgraded. Happy Helming!
NAME: ingress
LAST DEPLOYED: Mon Mar 13 22:44:11 2023
NAMESPACE: gateway
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
----
+
The REVISION increments by `1` each time you run this command with the same namespace, repository, and chart names. For example, if you run the command a second time, you find a new revision number (`REVISION: 2`). The `LAST DEPLOYED` date reflects the date of that revision.
+
If you receive an UPGRADE FAILED response, see <<upgrade-failed,troubleshooting>> information about this issue. 

* A new Flex Gateway container is running in your terminal window.

> +

Author: ```suggestion
```

> The container runs until you stop the process or close the terminal window in which it is running.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Setting up a Kubernetes cluster requires a level of skill and expertise that is _beyond the scope of this guide to provide_. Cluster configuration in Kubernetes differs markedly by service provider and platform. For cluster configuration questions, consult documentation from your Kubernetes service provider or use the https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/[Kubernetes documentation^]. 

If you lack a Kubernetes cluster but want to try out Flex Gateway quickly, without creating a cluster, see xref:flex-gateway-getting-started.adoc[Getting Started with Flex Gateway] (on Docker). That guide uses Docker exclusively and does not require you to perform any cluster configuration.

== Before You Begin

Before starting the procedures in this guide, ensure that the following prerequisites are in place:
 
* A username and password for your Anypoint Platform organization. If you do not have an Anypoint Platform account, https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/login/signup[create a Trial organization^] on Anypoint Platform.
//TODO: VERIFY Manage Servers and Read Servers permissions in RTM NO LONGER NEEDED

//os prereqs
* A Linux or MacOS machine with an x86 processor. M1 and M2 processors are not supported.

> //TODO: VERIFY not Windows x86

Author: ```suggestion
//TODO: VERIFY not Windows x86 -- pending testing 
```

.. Find and select your container in the *Select a gateway* area of the page.
+
Use the search field to locate it, if necessary.
.. Click *Next* to open the *API* page.

. In the *API* configuration page associated with *APIs / Add API*, provide an API name and asset type:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-api-config-api.png["Screenshot of 'API' page",width=60%]
+
.. Click *Create an API*.
.. Provide an API name, such as *my-api*.
.. Select *HTTP API* as the asset type.
.. Click *Next* to open the *Endpoint* configuration page.

. In the *Endpoint* page associated with *APIs / Add API*, set up an endpoint for your API:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-api-config-endpoint.png["Screenshot of 'Endpoint' page",width=90%]
+
.. Copy the following URI into the *Implementation URI* field:
+
[source]
----
https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/
----
.. Type `80` in the *Port* field.
.. Click *Next* to open the *Review* page.

. In the *Review* page associated with *APIs / Add API*: 
.. Review your API configuration.
.. If necessary, use *Edit* to revise any configurations. 
.. When your configuration is correct, click *Save & Deploy*.

> //TODO: YOU CAN'T GO BACK AND EDIT THIS CONFIG AFTER DEPLOYING IT?

Author: ```suggestion
```

+
----
Hang tight while we grab the latest from your chart repositories...
...Successfully got an update from the "flex-gateway" chart repository
Update Complete. ⎈Happy Helming!⎈
----
+
If you have more than one Helm repository on your machine, the message in your terminal window lists all of them.

[[deploy-flex]]
== Step 4: Deploy and Connect Flex Gateway

Use Helm to deploy Flex Gateway to a node in your cluster and connect it to Anypoint Platform. After deploying, use Runtime Manager to verify that the gateway is present and connected to Anypoint Platform. 

Before you begin: 
 
Confirm that your Kubernetes cluster is available by following the steps in <<check-cluster>>. Review <<k8-cluster-reqs>> if you have not done so already. These prerequisites help avoid deployment errors. 

After confirming that your Kubernetes cluster is ready, complete the following steps:

. Run the Helm command for deploying your gateway and connecting it to Anypoint Platform. 
+
[source,helm]
----
helm -n gateway upgrade -i --create-namespace \
--wait ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway \ 
--set gateway.mode=connected \
--set-file registration.content=registration.yaml
----

> +

Author: The first time I ran this using the `-n gateway` (including the new `--set gateway.mode=connected`) I got an error (see below). I ran it with another namespace and succeeded. See below. That namespace existed already and was probably set to the default of `local` mode. Could that have been the issue? 

> sduke-ltm2:flex-registration sduke$ helm -n gateway upgrade -i --create-namespace \
> > --wait ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway \
> > --set gateway.mode=connected \
> > --set-file registration.content=registration.yaml
> Error: UPGRADE FAILED: unable to build kubernetes objects from current release manifest: [resource mapping not found for name: "ingress-http" namespace: "" from "": no matches for kind "ApiInstance" in version "gateway.mulesoft.com/v1alpha1"
> ensure CRDs are installed first, resource mapping not found for name: "ingress-https" namespace: "" from "": no matches for kind "ApiInstance" in version "gateway.mulesoft.com/v1alpha1"
> ensure CRDs are installed first]
> 
> sduke-ltm2:flex-registration sduke$ ls
> registration.yaml
> sduke-ltm2:flex-registration sduke$ atom registration.yaml 
> sduke-ltm2:flex-registration sduke$ cp registration.yaml registration.yaml-v1
> 
> 
> sduke-ltm2:flex-registration sduke$ helm -n gateway2 upgrade -i --create-namespace --wait ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway --set gateway.mode=connected --set-file registration.content=registration.yaml
> Release "ingress" does not exist. Installing it now.
> NAME: ingress
> LAST DEPLOYED: Mon Mar 20 21:36:19 2023
> NAMESPACE: gateway2
> STATUS: deployed
> REVISION: 1
>

= Getting Started with Flex Gateway on a Kubernetes Cluster
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:version-helm: 3.0.0

Get started with Anypoint Flex Gateway on a Kubernetes cluster. Set up a Flex Gateway deployment that connects to Anypoint Platform, and use the deployment to route traffic to your API. This guide covers the following high-level tasks:

> * Downloading, registering, and deploying Flex Gateway in Connected Mode. 

Reviewer 3: Sentence fragments with periods.

Author: Do we not allow fragments in bullet lists? Totally though it was kosher.

Author: removed periods in commit suggestions

Reviewer 3: Fragments are fine, but if they're all fragments, no periods.

Reviewer 3: https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/pages/viewpage.action?spaceKey=MTDT&title=MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-bulletlists

> * Downloading, registering, and deploying Flex Gateway in Connected Mode. 

Author: ```suggestion
* Downloading, registering, and deploying Flex Gateway in Connected Mode
```

> * Creating a simple API in Anypoint API Manager that runs on your gateway. 

Author: ```suggestion
* Creating a simple API in Anypoint API Manager that runs on your gateway
```

> * Protecting the API with a basic authentication policy that you configure for it in API Manager. 

Author: ```suggestion
* Protecting the API with a basic authentication policy that you configure for it in API Manager
```

The Flex Gateway deployment process requires a working Kubernetes cluster that you create or that is provisioned for you by a Kubernetes professional. 

> Setting up a Kubernetes cluster requires a level of skill and expertise that is _beyond the scope of this guide to provide_. Cluster configuration in Kubernetes differs markedly by service provider and platform. For cluster configuration questions, consult documentation from your Kubernetes service provider or use the https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/[Kubernetes documentation^]. 

Reviewer 3: markedly -> significantly?

Author: fixed

> Setting up a Kubernetes cluster requires a level of skill and expertise that is _beyond the scope of this guide to provide_. Cluster configuration in Kubernetes differs markedly by service provider and platform. For cluster configuration questions, consult documentation from your Kubernetes service provider or use the https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/[Kubernetes documentation^]. 

Author: ```suggestion
Setting up a Kubernetes cluster requires a level of skill and expertise that is _beyond the scope of this guide to provide_. Cluster configuration in Kubernetes differs significantly by service provider and platform. For cluster configuration questions, consult documentation from your Kubernetes service provider or use the https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/[Kubernetes documentation^]. 
```

> Setting up a Kubernetes cluster requires a level of skill and expertise that is _beyond the scope of this guide to provide_. Cluster configuration in Kubernetes differs significantly by service provider and platform. For cluster configuration questions, consult documentation from your Kubernetes service provider or use the https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/[Kubernetes documentation^]. 

Author: changed this from "markedly" to "significantly"

Author: should I lose the periods maybe?

If you lack a Kubernetes cluster but want to try out Flex Gateway quickly, without creating a cluster, see xref:flex-gateway-getting-started.adoc[Getting Started with Flex Gateway] (on Docker). That guide uses Docker exclusively and does not require you to perform any cluster configuration.

== Before You Begin

Before starting the procedures in this guide, ensure that the following prerequisites are in place:
 
* A username and password for your Anypoint Platform organization. If you do not have an Anypoint Platform account, https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/login/signup[create a Trial organization^] on Anypoint Platform.
//TODO: VERIFY Manage Servers and Read Servers permissions in RTM NO LONGER NEEDED

//os prereqs

> * A Linux or MacOS machine with an x86 processor. M1 and M2 processors are not supported.

Reviewer 3: machine -> system?

Author: we're talking OS's here; could be computer or VM software

Author: for now, leaving for consistency with the other getting started guide

//TODO: VERIFY not Windows x86 -- pending testing 

//docker prereq
* {empty}
include::partial$prerequisites.adoc[tag=docker]
+

> Run `docker --version` from a terminal window to find out if this tool is installed. If you need to install Docker, try https://www.docker.com/[Docker Desktop^]. 

Reviewer 3: find out -> determine?

Author: fixed

Author: done

> Run `docker --version` from a terminal window to find out if this tool is installed. If you need to install Docker, try https://www.docker.com/[Docker Desktop^]. 

Author: ```suggestion
Run `docker --version` from a terminal window to determine if this tool is installed. If you need to install Docker, try https://www.docker.com/[Docker Desktop^]. 
```

Author: done

//helm prereq
* {empty}
include::partial$prerequisites.adoc[tag=helm] 
+

> Run `helm version` from a terminal window to find out if this tool is installed and check the version. To install or upgrade, use the https://helm.sh/[Helm^] website. 

Author: ```suggestion
Run `helm version` from a terminal window to determine if this tool is installed and check the version. To install or upgrade, use the https://helm.sh/[Helm^] website. 
```

//kubectl prereq to select cluster prior to deployment
* {empty}
include::partial$prerequisites.adoc[tag=kubectl]
+

> Run `kubectl version --output=yaml` from a terminal window to find out if this tool is installed. If not, find `kubectl` among the installation tools available through the https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/[Kubernetes documentation^]. 

Author: ```suggestion
Run `kubectl version --output=yaml` from a terminal window to determine if this tool is installed. If not, find `kubectl` among the installation tools available through the https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/[Kubernetes documentation^]. 
```

//curl prereq to test the API with flex
* {empty}
include::partial$prerequisites.adoc[tag=curl]
+

> Run `curl --version` from a terminal window to find out if this tool is installed. If not, you can download it with a package manager for your machine. 

Author: ```suggestion
Run `curl --version` from a terminal window to determine if this tool is installed. If not, you can download it with a package manager for your machine. 
```

[[k8-cluster-reqs]]
== Cluster Requirements

The host for your Kubernetes cluster can be any xref:flex-review-prerequisites.adoc#software-requirements[supported Kubernetes provider], including common cloud-based services, such as Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS), Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS), or Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE).

To complete the procedures in this guide, you must create a Kubernetes cluster or use an existing one for your Flex Gateway deployment. In this guide, you use Helm to deploy Flex Gateway to a Kubernetes cluster and connect it to Anypoint Platform. 

[[min-cluster-reqs]]
The following minimum requirements apply to a small Kubernetes cluster used for demonstration purposes in this guide and _do not apply to requirements of a production environment_:
//TODO: POINT TO PROD REQUIREMENTS ONCE THEY ARE AVAILABLE. 
//Create story

> * At least 1 node.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* At least one node.
```

Reviewer 3: https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/pages/viewpage.action?spaceKey=MTDT&title=MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-numbers

Reviewer 3: Periods for sentence fragments.
https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/pages/viewpage.action?spaceKey=MTDT&title=MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-bulletlists

* Support for the creation of a `Service` resource of the `LoadBalancer` type.
+

> To avoid deployment errors in this guide, your cluster must support this process. However, note that Flex Gateway supports all of the following Ingress Controller services: `ClusterIP`, `NodePort`, `LoadBalancer` (default), `ExternalName`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To avoid deployment errors when using this guide, your cluster must support this process. However, Flex Gateway supports these Ingress Controller services: `ClusterIP`, `NodePort`, `LoadBalancer` (default), `ExternalName`. 
```

* Compute resources needed for the deployment procedure are _very unlikely_ to exceed the following values (equivalent to the EKS t3.micro instance type): 

** vCPU: 2 vCPUs
** Memory: 1 GiB
** Network: Up to 5 Gigabit
** Max ENI: 2
** Max IPs: 4 

> To determine whether your cluster is ready for the <<deploy-flex, deployment procedure>>, it is important to review <<check-cluster>> _before starting_ the deployment. The checks require you to run a set of `kubectl` commands.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To determine whether your cluster is ready for the <<deploy-flex, deployment procedure>>, review <<check-cluster>> _before starting_ the deployment. The checks require you to run a set of `kubectl` commands.
```

[[install-flex]]
== Step 1: Download the Flex Gateway Image

Use Docker to download the Flex Gateway image from the Docker Hub registry.

> . Check that Docker is running by executing the following command in a terminal window:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Check that Docker is running by running the following command in a terminal window:
```

Reviewer 3: (just a suggestion - I prefer to avoid execute and abort :>)

+
[source,docker,subs=attributes+]
----
docker info
----
+

> If you receive an error after executing this command, see the information on <<docker-troubleshooting,Docker troubleshooting>>.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you receive an error after executing this command, see the information about <<docker-troubleshooting,Docker troubleshooting>>.  
```

Reviewer 3: https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/pages/viewpage.action?spaceKey=MTDT&title=MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-%22informationon%22

. Run the following command in a terminal window:
+
[source,docker,subs=attributes+]
----
docker pull mulesoft/flex-gateway:{gateway-ver-var}
----
+

> When successful, this command prints a message similar to this one in your terminal window:

Author: ```suggestion
When successful, this command prints a message similar to the following one in your terminal window:
```

Author: this is another one where I'm not sure why it matters if followed by a colon but not a big deal to change

> When successful, this command prints a message similar to this one in your terminal window:

Reviewer 3: this one > the following?

Author: done

+
----
latest: Pulling from mulesoft/flex-gateway
Digest: sha256:e55555abcdefg1234567zxynwo33333fadjf
Status: Image is up to date for mulesoft/flex-gateway:latest
docker.io/mulesoft/flex-gateway:latest
----
+
Use `sudo` if you encounter permission issues when running this command. 

[[register-flex]]
== Step 2: Register Flex Gateway

> Register the Flex Gateway image from a terminal window using a temporary token generated by Anypoint Runtime Manager. This procedure produces a local `registration.yaml` file that contains registration properties for a named gateway. These properties are incorporated into a Helm chart in <<deploy-flex>>.

Reviewer 3: Is it .yaml or .yml?

Author: `registration.yaml`

. From a terminal window, prepare a directory for a Flex Gateway registration file (`registration.yaml`).
.. Create a directory:
+
[source,mkdir]
----
mkdir flex-registration
----
.. Navigate to the new directory:
+
[source,cd]
----
cd flex-registration
----

. Log in to https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/login/[Anypoint Platform^] and select *Runtime Manager*.
. From Runtime Manager, locate the procedure for registering Flex Gateway:
.. Click *Flex Gateways* in the side navigation panel.
.. Click *Add Gateway*.
.. Select *Kubernetes*.

> .. In the Kubernetes page, locate the command in the *Register your gateway* section:

Author: ```suggestion
.. On the Kubernetes page, locate the command in the *Register your gateway* section:
```

> .. In the Kubernetes page, locate the command in the *Register your gateway* section:

Reviewer 3: I think Kim preferred "On" the page.

Author: done

Author: Her guidance sometimes seemed arbitrary, but if that's what we're all doing for consistency... whatever. no big deal one way or the other

+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-add-gateway-rtm.png["Add registration code block from Add a Flex Gateway page"]
+
The highlighted command block includes your unique organization ID and a temporary token. 

> . In your terminal window, copy the command block from Runtime Manager into your `./flex-registration` directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. In your terminal window, copy the command block from Runtime Manager to your `./flex-registration` directory.
```

+
Notice that Runtime Manager provides the required organization and token values.

. Before running the command, replace `<gateway-name>` at the end of the command block with a _unique_ name for your gateway, such as `my-gateway`.
+
The name that you provide for your gateway must be unique within the scope of your Anypoint Platform organization and environment. Completing this registration step is required once _and allowed no more than once_ per named gateway and organization.

. Run the edited command from your terminal window.
+

> When successful, the command produces a `registration.yaml` in your `./flex-registration` directory and provides the following message in your terminal window:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When successful, the command produces a `registration.yaml` in your `./flex-registration` directory and displays the following message in your terminal window:
```

+
----
Starting registration, please be patient.
Registration completed, the configuration files were written 
in directory "/registration". For security, modify the file permissions 
to restrict production scenario access to the user running flex.
----
+
Note that the message in the terminal window refers to a `/registration` directory that resides within the Docker container. 
+

> Use `sudo` if you encounter file permission issues when running this command. If your token expires before you run the command, a `400 Bad Request` error occurs, so you need to refresh the Runtime Manager page to generate a new token and run the modified command that appears on the page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use `sudo` if you encounter file permission issues when running this command. If your token expires before you run the command, a `400 Bad Request` error occurs. In this case, you must refresh the Runtime Manager page to generate a new token and run the modified command that appears on the page.
```

[[create-repo]]
== Step 3: Create a Repository for the Helm Chart

Add the Flex Gateway chart repository. Note that you can get more information about the properties of the Helm chart for Flex Gateway in https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/flex-gateway/flex-gateway[ArtifactHUB^].

. Add a Helm repository named `flex-gateway` for your Helm chart: 
+
[source,helm]
----
helm repo add flex-gateway https://flex-packages.anypoint.mulesoft.com/helm
----
+

> The command either adds the repository or skips this process if a Helm repository with that name exists already on your machine:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The command either adds the repository or skips this process if a Helm repository with that name already exists on your machine:
```

+
* If the repository is new, the command returns the following message:
+
----
"flex-gateway" has been added to your repositories
----
+

> * If the repository exists already, the command returns the following message:

Author: ```suggestion
* If the repository already exists, the command returns the following message:
```

> * If the repository exists already, the command returns the following message:

Reviewer 3: already exists?

Reviewer 3: See message below

Author: done

+
----
"flex-gateway" already exists with the same configuration, skipping
----

. Run `helm repo up`.
+
The command returns the following message:
+
----
Hang tight while we grab the latest from your chart repositories...
...Successfully got an update from the "flex-gateway" chart repository
Update Complete. ⎈Happy Helming!⎈
----
+

> If you have more than one Helm repository on your machine, the message in your terminal window lists all of them.

Author: ```suggestion
If you have more than one Helm repository on your machine, the message in your terminal window lists all of the repositories.
```

[[deploy-flex]]
== Step 4: Deploy and Connect Flex Gateway

Use Helm to deploy Flex Gateway to a node in your cluster and connect it to Anypoint Platform. After deploying, use Runtime Manager to verify that the gateway is present and connected to Anypoint Platform. 

Before you begin: 
 
Confirm that your Kubernetes cluster is available by following the steps in <<check-cluster>>. Review <<k8-cluster-reqs>> if you have not done so already. These prerequisites help avoid deployment errors. 

After confirming that your Kubernetes cluster is ready, complete the following steps:

> . Run the Helm command for deploying your gateway and connecting it to Anypoint Platform. 

Reviewer 3: should "Helm" be lowercase/mono in this case?

Author: it's ok to stay as-s

> . Run the Helm command for deploying your gateway and connecting it to Anypoint Platform. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Run the Helm command for deploying your gateway and connecting it to Anypoint Platform:
```

+
[source,helm]
----
helm -n gateway upgrade -i --create-namespace \
--wait ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway \ 
--set gateway.mode=connected \
--set-file registration.content=registration.yaml
----
+
This command creates the `gateway` namespace and `ingress` release if they do not exist. The command syntax for the Helm repository and chart names is `<helm-repo-name>/<helm-chart-name>`. 
+
When successful, the command prints a message indicating an upgrade to your `ingress` release:
+
----
Release "ingress" does not exist. Installing it now.
NAME: ingress
LAST DEPLOYED: Mon Mar 20 21:36:19 2023
NAMESPACE: gateway
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
----
+

> The `REVISION` increments the `ingress` release by `1` each time you run this command with the same namespace, repository, and chart names. For example, if you run the command a second time, you find a new revision number (`REVISION: 2`). The `LAST DEPLOYED` date reflects the date of that revision.

Author: ```suggestion
The `REVISION` value increments the `ingress` release by `1` each time you run this command with the same namespace, repository, and chart names. For example, if you run the command a second time, you find a new revision number (`REVISION: 2`). The `LAST DEPLOYED` date reflects the date of that revision.
```

> The `REVISION` increments the `ingress` release by `1` each time you run this command with the same namespace, repository, and chart names. For example, if you run the command a second time, you find a new revision number (`REVISION: 2`). The `LAST DEPLOYED` date reflects the date of that revision.

Reviewer 3: REVISION attribute?

+
If you receive an `UPGRADE FAILED` response, see <<upgrade-failed,troubleshooting>> information about this issue. 

. Return to Runtime Manager: 
.. Select *&#8592; Flex Gateways* from the side navigation panel of the Kubernetes *Add a Flex Gateway* page. 
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-return-to-gateway-list.png["Return to Flex Gateway list in Runtime Manager"]

> .. Navigate to your registered gateway in the *Flex Gateways* page that opens:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. Navigate to your registered gateway in the *Flex Gateways* page:
```

+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-my-gateway-rtm.png["Flex Gateway my-gateway in Runtime Manager"]
+

> You can use the search field in the page to narrow the list of gateways.

Reviewer 3: To narrow..., use... ?

Author: I think it's ok

.. Make sure that the status of your gateway is *Connected*. 
+

> If the status is *Disconnected*, it is likely that the cluster configuration is incorrect or there is a network issue. Check <<troubleshooting>> for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the status is *Disconnected*, it is likely that the cluster configuration is incorrect or a network issue occurred. Check <<troubleshooting>> for more information.
```

//TODO: COVER BOTH TYPES OF ISSUES; MAKE SURE MOST COMMON ARE COVERED
//      don't have network-related troubleshooting yet; 
//      so have some config troubleshooting

[[create-api]]
== Step 5: Publish and Deploy a Simple API to Flex Gateway

> Create and deploy a simple API to your gateway in Anypoint API Manager. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create and deploy a simple API to your gateway in Anypoint API Manager:
```

. In Runtime Manager, click the *View APIs* menu option for your gateway to navigate to its *View APIs* page.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-view-apis.png["View APIs menu item for Flex Gateway"]
+
Alternatively, you can navigate to API Manager from the Anypoint Platform menu.

> . From the page that opens, click *Add API* (and if present, *Add new API*) to navigate to the *APIs / Add API* page in API Manager.

Reviewer 3: Do you need "From the page that opens"?

Author: I think it's clearer, but it's not that important.

. From *APIs / Add API*, configure an API by working through the API configuration pages, starting with the *Runtime* configuration:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-select-gateway-for-api.png["Add API page with Flex Gateway Runtime and my-gateway selected"]
+
.. From the *Runtime* configuration page, select *Flex Gateway* as your runtime.
.. Find and select your gateway in the *Select a gateway* area of the page.
+
Use the search field to locate it, if necessary.
.. Click *Next* to open the *API* page.

. In the *API* configuration page associated with *APIs / Add API*, provide an API name and asset type:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-api-config-api.png["Screenshot of 'API' page",width=60%]
+
.. Click *Create new API*.
+

> The remaining procedures walk you through steps for creating and testing a new HTTP API in Anypoint Exchange. Notice, however, that it is also possible to select an existing API from Exchange from this page. That process is described in the xref:api-gateway::create-instance-task.adoc#add-a-new-api[Add a New API] within the API Manager documentation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The remaining procedures walk you through steps for creating and testing a new HTTP API in Anypoint Exchange. Notice, however, that it is also possible to select an existing API from Exchange from this page. That process is described in the xref:api-gateway::create-instance-task.adoc#add-a-new-api[Add a New API] in the API Manager documentation.
```

+
.. Provide an API name, such as *my-api*.
.. Select *HTTP API* as the asset type.
.. Click *Next* to open the *Endpoint* configuration page.

. In the *Endpoint* page associated with *APIs / Add API*, set up an endpoint for your API:
+

> image::gateway-quickstart-k8-api-config-endpoint.png["Screenshot of 'Endpoint' page",width=90%]

Reviewer 3: Should this be below substep 3?

Author: showing what they'll do before they do it.

NAME    TYPE         CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP       PORT(S)                    AGE
ingress LoadBalancer 10.100.145.109 <123456.aws.com>  80:30524/TCP,443:31710/TCP 7d7h
----
+
The `EXTERNAL-IP` value `<123456.aws.com>` is an example and not an actual value.
+
.. Run the following `curl` command, replacing `<your_external_ip>` with _your_ `EXTERNAL-IP` from the preceding step:
+
[source,curl]
----
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n" --request GET 'http://<your_external_ip>:80/users'
----
+
The command executes a `GET` request to the API and prints a success code:
+
----
200
----
+
You can also run a simpler `curl` command to return an array of JSON objects from the service's `/users` endpoint, for example: 
+
[source,curl]
----
$ curl http://<your_external_ip>:80/users
----  

== Step 6: Secure Your API Using the Basic Authentication Policy

Use API Manager to add a basic authentication policy to your API.

. In *API Manager*, select *API Administration* from the side navigation panel.
. Find and click the name of the API that you created in <<create-api>>, such as *my-api*.
. Navigate to the *Policies* page for your API:
.. Select *Policies* from the side navigation panel.

> .. In the *Policies* page, click *Add policy*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. On the *Policies* page, click *Add policy*.
```

+
image::gateway-quickstart-add-policy.png["Add Policy page with Add policy button",width=90%]

> . In the page that opens, find the *Security* policy called *Basic Authentication - Simple* policy.

Reviewer 3: Do you need "In the page that opens"?

Author: not necessary, but I think it's more clear

+

> image::gateway-quickstart-k8-basic-auth.png["Screenshot of 'Add a policy' page",width=90%]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-basic-auth.png["Add a policy page",width=90%]
```

+
----
200
----
+
The `user` and `password` parameters (`user:pw`) must match the values you specified when you applied the policy. If you enter incorrect authentication parameters, the following error occurs:
+
----
401
----
+
To address the error, run the command with the correct authentication parameters, or return to the policy configuration page for your API in API Gateway, edit the policy configuration, and rerun the `curl` commands.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-config-basic-auth-edit-dialogue.png["Screenshot of 'Configure Basic Authentication - Simple policy' edit dialogue",width=90%]
+
The page for editing the credentials looks similar to this one:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-config-basic-auth-edit.png["Screenshot of 'Configure Basic Authentication - Simple policy' configuration page",width=90%]

[[troubleshooting]]
== Troubleshooting
//iterative troubleshooting info to add as needed:

If you encounter an error when running a command, check for troubleshooting information: 

<<docker-troubleshooting>> | <<helm-troubleshooting>>

[[docker-troubleshooting]]
=== Docker Command Issues

Troubleshoot errors returned by a `docker` command:

[[daemon-bad-response]]

> * If Docker is not started, a `docker` command returns an error message similar to these:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* If Docker is not started, a `docker` command returns an error message similar to the following:
```

Author: similar to some others, this one is less wordy with "to these:" and "this one:" etc.

is this just a style guideline?

+
----
Error response from daemon: Bad response from Docker engine
----
+

> If you get this error, you need to start Docker.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you get this error, start Docker.
```

Author: implied is that the reason they are getting the error is that Docker isn't started, so they need to do that

Do we have guidance against "need to"? Probably do, huh.

Reviewer 3: https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/pages/viewpage.action?spaceKey=MTDT&title=MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-%22needto,%22%22haveto,%22%22must%22

[[bad-request]]
* The following error can occur when you use `docker run` to register your gateway:
+
----
[flexctl][error] reg facade call returned error response:
HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
----
+
The reason for this error is available within the error message. Common causes include: 

[[name-already-exists]]

> ** `an active target with the same name already exists in this organization and environment`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** `an active target with the same name already exists in this organization and environment`
```

+
To avoid this issue, provide a _unique name_ for your gateway when running the <<reg-command, registration command>>. Note that you _cannot reuse the same name_ even if a previous registration with that name was successful. When this error occurs, the command generates an _empty_ `registration.yaml`, which prevents re-registration _and_ produces an error when you try to use the file when deploying the gateway to your cluster. 

[[no-token]]
** `no valid registration token was found`
+

> To avoid this issue, generate a new token for the command by refreshing the *Add a Flex Gateway* page for Kubernetes and rerun the <<reg-command, registration command>>.

Reviewer 3: Do you need the "To avoid this issue," on these bullets? Can you just dive into the solution?

Author: yeah, easier for scanning as separate issues associated with the parent bullet

[[helm-troubleshooting]]
=== Helm Command Issues

Troubleshoot errors returned by a `helm` command:

[[yaml-empty]]

> * If the `registration.yaml` file is invalid when you pass it to the Helm command during deployment of Flex Gateway, the following error results:

Reviewer 3: results or occurs?

Author: the command returns a result

+
----
Error: UPGRADE FAILED: execution error at (flex-gateway/templates/deployment.yaml:4:10):
registerSecretName, registration.content or registration.secretName is required!
----
+

> When this error occurs, check the `registration.yaml`. Make sure the file is not empty. If the file is empty, re-register your gateway with a new, unique name to generate a new `registration.yaml` (see <<register-flex>>) and rerun the procedures that follow the registration step. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When this error occurs, makes sure that the `registration.yaml` file is not empty. If the file is empty, reregister your gateway with a new, unique name to generate a new `registration.yaml` (see <<register-flex>>) and rerun the procedures that follow the registration step. 
```

Reviewer 3: (I had to look up that reregister - Kim's SR points to Merriam Webster. :> )

[[cluster_unreachable]]

> * If your Kubernetes cluster is not running when you attempt to deploy Flex Gateway using `helm`, the following error can occur:

Author: ```suggestion
* If your Kubernetes cluster is not running when you attempt to deploy Flex Gateway using `helm`, the following error might occur:
```

> * If your Kubernetes cluster is not running when you attempt to deploy Flex Gateway using `helm`, the following error can occur:

Reviewer 3: can > might?

+
----
Error: Kubernetes cluster unreachable: 
the server could not find the requested resource
----
+
Start the service that runs your cluster. 
+

> You can check that your Kubernetes cluster host is running your cluster, for example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Check that your Kubernetes cluster host is running your cluster, for example:
```

Author: do we have guidance on that? I prefer full sentences in these cases. But not a big deal either way to me. Just not sure if necessary.

Reviewer 3: https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/pages/viewpage.action?spaceKey=MTDT&title=MuleSoft+CX+Writing+Style+Reference#MuleSoftCXWritingStyleReference-%22can,%22%22may,%22and%22might%22

Reviewer 3: It's still a full (imperative) sentence.

+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl cluster-info
----
+

> If the cluster is running, the command returns a result similar to this one:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the cluster is running, the command returns a result similar to:
```

Reviewer 3: (I avoid "one" - I think I suggested "the following" earlier, but I think it's obvious from the colon which one you mean.)

Author: Is there guidance on this?

Reviewer 3: Not in Kim's guide, no. It's just extra words (IMO). Your doc, your call.

----
+
This error typically means that your cluster configuration is incorrect or that your cluster configuration tool does not support this process. See <<k8-cluster-reqs>>. One potential cause is the failure to generate a `Service` resource of the `LoadBalancer` type. You can troubleshoot further by running the following commands:

** {empty}
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl -n gateway describe deployment
----

** {empty}
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl -n gateway describe service
----

//TODO: this was from Israel. Not clear what upgrade error and 
//      why we would uninstall the ingress for the namespace. 
//Israel: "If you receive an upgrade error when execute the command, you can  
//         remove the ingress released chart or omit the released argument:"
//
//## Command to remove ingress chart released
//helm -n <namespace> uninstall ingress
//
// TODO: WHEN WOULD WE OMIT -i --create-namespace --wait?
//## Command without install ingress chart arguments
// helm -n <namespace> upgrade \
//ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway \
//--set-file registration.content=<registration_file>

[[check-cluster]]
== Check Your Cluster

> Before deploying Flex Gateway to your Kubernetes cluster in <<deploy-flex>>, you must make sure that your cluster is ready. To check, you can use `kubectl` to list and select (use) a cluster and to get a list of nodes that the cluster uses. If any steps in this section fail, the deployment process is likely to produce errors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before deploying Flex Gateway to your Kubernetes cluster in <<deploy-flex>>, ensure that your cluster is ready. Use `kubectl` to list and select (use) a cluster and to get a list of nodes that the cluster uses. If any steps in this section fail, the deployment process is likely to produce errors.
```

To prevent potential timeout and connectivity errors when running procedures in this guide, your cluster must meet the <<k8-cluster-reqs>>. 

. Run `kubectl config get-contexts` to list the clusters, for example:
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl config get-contexts
----
+
This command is particularly helpful if you have multiple Kubernetes clusters. You can use the command to get the name of the the correct cluster. For example, assume that you have a variety of clusters (`my-cluster`, `my-aks`, `my-gke`, `my-eks`). The command prints a list of your clusters. 
+

> The following _example_ shows a list of clusters produced by the command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example shows a list of clusters produced by the command:
```

Reviewer 3: Kim says to use italics for emphasis sparingly.

Author: I need to emphasize so they don't copy&paste.

+
----
CURRENT   NAME          CLUSTER       AUTHINFO    NAMESPACE
          my-cluster    my-cluster                my-cluster1
          my-aks        my-aks                    my-aks
          my-gke        my-gke                    my-gke
          my-eks        my-eks                    my-eks
----
+
If your cluster is not listed and you are using a custom cluster context file on your machine to connect to your cluster, you might need to add its path to a `KUBECONFIG` environment variable that points to that file. By default, `kubectl` searches for a file named `config` in the `$HOME/.kube` directory. That file lists each `context`, which provides properties such as the cluster name, user, and certificate authority data. 
+
You can check by running `echo $KUBECONFIG` from your terminal window, which prints a environment variable's value, similar to this example: 
+
----
{KUBECONFIG}:/Users/me/.kube/config:/Users/me/.kube/additional-clusters/my-gke:/Users/me/.kube/additional-clusters/my-aks:/Users/me/.kube/additional-clusters/my-eks
----
+

> Adding the path to any additional cluster context files on your machine enables the `kubectl config get-contexts` to list them and for you to use them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Adding the path to any additional cluster context files on your machine enables the `kubectl config get-contexts` command to list the cluster contexts and for you to use them.
```

Reviewer 3: What does "them" refer to here? the files?

Author: get-contexts to list the contexts

Reviewer 3: enables... so that you can list and use the contexts?

+

> For more detail, see the https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/organize-cluster-access-kubeconfig/[Kubernetes documentation^] on the `kubeconfig` file. 

Author: ```suggestion
For more detail, see the https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/organize-cluster-access-kubeconfig/[Kubernetes documentation^] on the `kubeconfig` file. 
```
```suggestion
For more detail, see the https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/organize-cluster-access-kubeconfig/[Kubernetes documentation^] about the `kubeconfig` file. 
```

> For more detail, see the https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/organize-cluster-access-kubeconfig/[Kubernetes documentation^] on the `kubeconfig` file. 

Reviewer 3: "on" is unclear. about? 
see the information about the kubeconfig file in [ ]?

. Provide the name of a cluster into which you plan to deploy your gateway.
+
The following example uses the cluster `my-eks`, identified in the cluster list example: 
+
----
kubectl config use-context my-eks
----
+
The command switches to the selected cluster context and prints a message similar to this one:
+
----
Switched to context "my-eks".
----
+

> If you receive an error that begins `error: no context exists with the name`, ensure you are using the `NAME` of the cluster listed by `kubectl config get-contexts` and not the `CLUSTER` value.

Author: ```suggestion
If you receive an error that begins `error: no context exists with the name`, ensure you are using the `NAME` value of the cluster listed by `kubectl config get-contexts` and not the `CLUSTER` value.
```

> If you receive an error that begins `error: no context exists with the name`, ensure you are using the `NAME` of the cluster listed by `kubectl config get-contexts` and not the `CLUSTER` value.

Reviewer 3: Kim didn't like us to refer to elements this way. `NAME` value?

. Check that your cluster has one or more nodes:
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl get nodes
----
+
The command returns a output similar to this example:
+
----
NAME                STATUS   ROLES    AGE   VERSION
ip-192-168-70-170   Ready    <none>   17h   v1.x.x
ip-192-168-9-230    Ready    <none>   17h   v1.x.x
----
+

> Make sure that some nodes are in the `Ready` status. 

Author: ```suggestion
Make sure that at least one node is in the `Ready` status. 
```

> Make sure that some nodes are in the `Ready` status. 

Reviewer 3: some? at least one?

//TODO: WHAT specifically TO DO IF NOT Ready?
//TODO: WHAT OTHER CHARACTERISTICS should they check for? 
//      Can we check whether the node can create an Service resource of LoadBalancer type, for ex?

. If your cluster is not ready, correct the cluster configuration.
+
Alternatively, try the Docker-only guide, xref:flex-gateway-getting-started.adoc[], which does not use a Kubernetes cluster, and skip the next steps. 

. If you have not started the Flex Gateway setup procedures yet, be sure to review <<k8-cluster-reqs>> before proceeding to <<install-flex>>.

. If you have successfully completed all the procedures for downloading and registering your gateway with Docker and adding a repository for your Helm chart, and you are ready to begin the deployment procedure, go to <<deploy-flex>>. 

> == See Also

Author: ```suggestion
== Next Steps
```

> Learn other ways to set up and configure Flex Gateway for a Kubernetes cluster, and review other policy configuration options.

Reviewer 3: Typically, we don't include an intro in the See Also list. I wonder if this should have a different heading?

Author: yeah, makes sense

. In Runtime Manager, click the *View APIs* menu option for your gateway to navigate to its *View APIs* page.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-view-apis.png["View APIs menu item for Flex Gateway"]
+
Alternatively, you can navigate to API Manager from the Anypoint Platform menu.
. From the page that opens, click *Add API* (and if present, *Add new API*) to navigate to the *APIs / Add API* page in API Manager.
. From *APIs / Add API*, configure an API by working through the API configuration pages, starting with the *Runtime* configuration:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-select-gateway-for-api.png["Add API page with Flex Gateway Runtime and my-gateway selected"]
+
.. From the *Runtime* configuration page, select *Flex Gateway* as your runtime.
.. Find and select your gateway in the *Select a gateway* area of the page.
+
Use the search field to locate it, if necessary.
.. Click *Next* to open the *API* page.

. In the *API* configuration page associated with *APIs / Add API*, provide an API name and asset type:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-api-config-api.png["Screenshot of 'API' page",width=60%]
+
.. Click *Create new API*.
+

> The remaining procedures walk you through steps for creating and testing a new API in Anypoint Exchange. Notice, however, that it is also possible to select an existing API from Exchange from this page. That process is described in the xref:api-gateway::create-instance-task.adoc#add-a-new-api[Add a New API] within the API Manager documentation.

Author: ```suggestion
The remaining procedures walk you through steps for creating and testing a new HTTP API in Anypoint Exchange. Notice, however, that it is also possible to select an existing API from Exchange from this page. That process is described in the xref:api-gateway::create-instance-task.adoc#add-a-new-api[Add a New API] within the API Manager documentation.
```

+
[source,curl]
----
$ curl http://<your_external_ip>:80/users
----  

== Step 6: Secure Your API Using the Basic Authentication Policy

Use API Manager to add a basic authentication policy to your API.

. In *API Manager*, select *API Administration* from the side navigation panel.
. Find and click the name of the API that you created in <<create-api>>, such as *my-api*.
. Navigate to the *Policies* page for your API:
.. Select *Policies* from the side navigation panel.
.. In the *Policies* page, click *Add policy*.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-add-policy.png["Add Policy page with Add policy button",width=90%]
. In the page that opens, find the *Security* policy called *Basic Authentication - Simple* policy.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-basic-auth.png["Screenshot of 'Add a policy' page",width=90%]
+
Be careful to avoid selecting the similarly named policy for LDAP.
. Click *Next*.
. Configure a Basic Authentication policy:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-config-basic-auth.png["Screenshot of 'Configure Basic Authentication - Simple policy' page",width=80%]
+
.. For *User Name*, enter `user` instead of your real user name. 
+

> If the field is pre-populated with a value, you can keep the value or change it if you need to protect it.

Author: ```suggestion
If the field is pre-populated with a value, you can keep the value or change it to the suggested value. 
```

+
.. For *User Password*, enter `pw`.
+

> If the field is pre-populated with a value, you can keep the value or change it if you need to protect it.

Author: ```suggestion
If the field is pre-populated with a value, you can keep the value or change it to the suggested value. 
```

+
----
401
----
+
To address the error, run the command with the correct authentication parameters, or return to the policy configuration page for your API in API Gateway, edit the policy configuration, and rerun the `curl` commands.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-config-basic-auth-edit-dialogue.png["Screenshot of 'Configure Basic Authentication - Simple policy' edit dialogue",width=90%]
+
The page for editing the credentials looks similar to this one:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-config-basic-auth-edit.png["Screenshot of 'Configure Basic Authentication - Simple policy' configuration page",width=90%]

[[troubleshooting]]
== Troubleshooting
//iterative troubleshooting info to add as needed:

If you encounter an error when running a command, check for troubleshooting information: 

<<docker-troubleshooting>> | <<helm-troubleshooting>>

[[docker-troubleshooting]]
=== Docker Command Issues

Troubleshoot errors returned by a `docker` command:

[[daemon-bad-response]]
* If Docker is not started, a `docker` command returns an error message similar to these:
+
----
Error response from daemon: Bad response from Docker engine
----
+
If you get this error, you need to start Docker.

> TODO: FOR THIS ONE:

Author: ```suggestion
```

Author: remove for now so we can pub to beta and address later

> ----
> ERROR: Cannot connect to the Docker
> ----

Author: ```suggestion
```

error: the server doesn't have a resource type "services"
----
+
For additional information, see <<check-cluster>>.

[[upgrade-failed]]
* Some issues can cause the Helm upgrade command to hang for up to 5 minutes (due to the `--wait` flag in the command) before producing the following timeout error:
+
----
Error: UPGRADE FAILED: timed out waiting for the condition
----
+
This error typically means that your cluster configuration is incorrect or that your cluster configuration tool does not support this process. See <<k8-cluster-reqs>>. One potential cause is the failure to generate a `Service` resource of the `LoadBalancer` type. You can troubleshoot further by running the following commands:

** {empty}
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl -n gateway describe deployment
----

** {empty}
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl -n gateway describe service
----

//TODO: this was from Israel. Not clear what upgrade error and 
//      why we would uninstall the ingress for the namespace. 
//Israel: "If you receive an upgrade error when execute the command, you can  
//         remove the ingress released chart or omit the released argument:"
//
//## Command to remove ingress chart released

> //helm -n <namespace> uninstall ingress

Author: same as helm delete my-release, which is already doc'd https://docs.mulesoft.com/gateway/1.4/flex-gateway-uninstall#uninstall-as-a-kubernetes-ingress-controller

----
+
Adding the path to any additional cluster context files on your machine enables the `kubectl config get-contexts` to list them and for you to use them.
+
For more detail, see the https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/organize-cluster-access-kubeconfig/[Kubernetes documentation^] on the `kubeconfig` file. 

. Provide the name of a cluster into which you plan to deploy your gateway.
+
The following example uses the cluster `my-eks`, identified in the cluster list example: 
+
----
kubectl config use-context my-eks
----
+
The command switches to the selected cluster context and prints a message similar to this one:
+
----
Switched to context "my-eks".
----
+
If you receive an error that begins `error: no context exists with the name`, ensure you are using the `NAME` of the cluster listed by `kubectl config get-contexts` and not the `CLUSTER` value.

. Check that your cluster has one or more nodes:
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl get nodes
----
+
The command returns a output similar to this example:
+
----
NAME                                           STATUS   ROLES    AGE   VERSION

> ip-192-168-70-170.us-west-2.compute.internal   Ready    <none>   17h   v1.x.x

Author: ```suggestion
ip-192-168-70-170                                                     Ready    <none>   17h   v1.x.x
```

> ip-192-168-70-170.us-west-2.compute.internal   Ready    <none>   17h   v1.23.16-eks-48e63af

Author: ```suggestion
ip-192-168-70-170.us-west-2.compute.internal   Ready    <none>   17h   v1.x.x
```

Reviewer 2: IMHO, I would remove the `-eks-48e63af` part of the versions too

> NAME                                           STATUS   ROLES    AGE   VERSION
> ip-192-168-70-170.us-west-2.compute.internal   Ready    <none>   17h   v1.x.x
> ip-192-168-9-230.us-west-2.compute.internal    Ready    <none>   17h   v1.x.x

Author: ```suggestion
NAME                STATUS   ROLES    AGE   VERSION
ip-192-168-70-170   Ready    <none>   17h   v1.x.x
ip-192-168-9-230    Ready    <none>   17h   v1.x.x
```

> ip-192-168-9-230.us-west-2.compute.internal    Ready    <none>   17h   v1.23.16-eks-48e63af

Author: ```suggestion
ip-192-168-9-230.us-west-2.compute.internal    Ready    <none>   17h   v1.x.x
```

** vCPU: 2 vCPUs
** Memory: 1 GiB
** Network: Up to 5 Gigabit
** Max ENI: 2
** Max IPs: 4 

To determine whether your cluster is ready for the <<deploy-flex, deployment procedure>>, it is important to review <<check-cluster>> _before starting_ the deployment. The checks require you to run a set of `kubectl` commands.

[[install-flex]]
== Step 1: Download the Flex Gateway Image

Use Docker to download the Flex Gateway image from the Docker Hub registry.

. Check that Docker is running by executing the following command in a terminal window:
+
[source,docker,subs=attributes+]
----
docker info
----
+
If you receive an error after executing this command, see the information on <<docker-troubleshooting,Docker troubleshooting>>.  
. Run the following command in a terminal window:
+
[source,docker,subs=attributes+]
----
docker pull mulesoft/flex-gateway:{gateway-ver-var}
----
+
When successful, this command prints a message similar to this one in your terminal window:
+
----
latest: Pulling from mulesoft/flex-gateway
Digest: sha256:e55555abcdefg1234567zxynwo33333fadjf
Status: Image is up to date for mulesoft/flex-gateway:latest
docker.io/mulesoft/flex-gateway:latest
----
+

> Use `sudo` if you encounter file permission issues when running this command. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use `sudo` if you encounter permission issues when running this command. 
```

+
[source,helm]
----
helm -n gateway upgrade -i --create-namespace \
--wait ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway \ 
--set gateway.mode=connected \
--set-file registration.content=registration.yaml
----
+
This command creates the `gateway` namespace and `ingress` release if they do not exist. The command syntax for the Helm repository and chart names is `<helm-repo-name>/<helm-chart-name>`. 
+
When successful, the following occurs:
+
* The command prints a message indicating an upgrade to your `ingress` release:
+
----
Release "ingress" does not exist. Installing it now.
NAME: ingress
LAST DEPLOYED: Mon Mar 20 21:36:19 2023
NAMESPACE: gateway
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
----
+
The `REVISION` increments the `ingress` release by `1` each time you run this command with the same namespace, repository, and chart names. For example, if you run the command a second time, you find a new revision number (`REVISION: 2`). The `LAST DEPLOYED` date reflects the date of that revision.
+
If you receive an `UPGRADE FAILED` response, see <<upgrade-failed,troubleshooting>> information about this issue. 

> * A new gateway is running in your terminal window.

Reviewer 2: The gateway runs in the remote node
```suggestion
```

. In Runtime Manager, click the *View APIs* menu option for your gateway to navigate to its *View APIs* page.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-view-apis.png["View APIs menu item for Flex Gateway"]
+
Alternatively, you can navigate to API Manager from the Anypoint Platform menu.
. From the page that opens, click *Add API* (and if present, *Add new API*) to navigate to the *APIs / Add API* page in API Manager.
. From *APIs / Add API*, configure an API by working through the API configuration pages, starting with the *Runtime* configuration:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-select-gateway-for-api.png["Add API page with Flex Gateway Runtime and my-gateway selected"]
+
.. From the *Runtime* configuration page, select *Flex Gateway* as your runtime.
.. Find and select your gateway in the *Select a gateway* area of the page.
+
Use the search field to locate it, if necessary.
.. Click *Next* to open the *API* page.

. In the *API* configuration page associated with *APIs / Add API*, provide an API name and asset type:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-api-config-api.png["Screenshot of 'API' page",width=60%]
+
.. Click *Create new API*.
+

> The remaining procedures walk you through steps for creating and testing a new API that is running on your gateway. Notice, however, that it is also possible to select an existing API from Exchange from this page. That process is described in the xref:api-gateway::create-instance-task.adoc#add-a-new-api[Add a New API] within the API Manager documentation.

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit unsure about what `a new API that is running on your gateway` means
```suggestion
The remaining procedures walk you through steps for creating and testing a new API in Anypoint Exchange. Notice, however, that it is also possible to select an existing API from Exchange from this page. That process is described in the xref:api-gateway::create-instance-task.adoc#add-a-new-api[Add a New API] within the API Manager documentation.
```

Author: Is there a way to incorporate the gateway's role into the suggested change? Hoping to gently suggest why we're creating this API.

I'm not quite sure how to avoid an awkward sentence. Perhaps "...a new API in Anypoint Exchange for which the gateway routes traffic..." or something like that.

Reviewer 2: This one is difficult, because when you create the API in Exchange it only creates the specification. The routing rules get configured when filling the implementation URI, that is the next step.

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like this?
```suggestion
The remaining procedures walk you through steps for creating and testing a new HTTP API in Anypoint Exchange to later configure the gateway routes. Notice, however, that it is also possible to select an existing API from Exchange from this page. That process is described in the xref:api-gateway::create-instance-task.adoc#add-a-new-api[Add a New API] within the API Manager documentation.
```

Author: I see. I was thinking "remaining procedures" meant everything, but that sentence is more tied to the substeps. I'll commit your suggestion without that.

Reviewer 2: Great, can we also specify that we are creating and testing an **HTTP** API?

Author: yes

+
.. Provide an API name, such as *my-api*.
.. Select *HTTP API* as the asset type.
.. Click *Next* to open the *Endpoint* configuration page.

. In the *Endpoint* page associated with *APIs / Add API*, set up an endpoint for your API:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-api-config-endpoint.png["Screenshot of 'Endpoint' page",width=90%]
+
.. Copy the following URI into the *Implementation URI* field:
+
[source]
----
https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/
----
.. Type `80` in the *Port* field.
.. Click *Next* to open the *Review* page.

. In the *Review* page associated with *APIs / Add API*: 
.. Review your API configuration.
.. If necessary, use *Edit* to revise any configurations. 
.. When your configuration is correct, click *Save & Deploy*.
+

> Inside the API instance, all HTTP requests to the external IP associated with your gateway are proxied to the `jsonplaceholder` service.

Reviewer 2: What do you mean with `Inside the API instance`? I think we could say something like this

```suggestion
Now, all incoming HTTP requests to the port `80` of your gateway are proxied to the `jsonplaceholder` service.
```

Author: ok, that language came from here: https://dev-docs-internal.kqa.msap.io/beta-flex-gateway-get-well/gateway/1.4/flex-gateway-getting-started#publish-a-simple-api 

Maybe that was specific to that guide. Should anything change there?

Reviewer 2: Right, there it says `inside the gateway instance Docker container` instead of `API instance`. We can also say it like this:

```suggestion
Inside the gateway, all HTTP requests made to `localhost` on port 80 are proxied to the `jsonplaceholder` service.
```

But I would like to avoid mentioning `localhost` because it might be confusing (it's the localhost of the container running in the remote machine, not the localhost where the user is running the commands). Therefore I suggest `incoming HTTP requests`:

```suggestion
Inside the gateway, all incoming HTTP requests on port `80` are proxied to the `jsonplaceholder` service.
```

Author: Guess I need some coffee! 😆 I'll commit the last change.

Use API Manager to add a basic authentication policy to your API.

. In *API Manager*, select *API Administration* from the side navigation panel.
. Find and click the name of the API that you created in <<create-api>>, such as *my-api*.
. Navigate to the *Policies* page for your API:
.. Select *Policies* from the side navigation panel.
.. In the *Policies* page, click *Add policy*.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-add-policy.png["Add Policy page with Add policy button",width=90%]
. In the page that opens, find the *Security* policy called *Basic Authentication - Simple* policy.
+
image::gateway-quickstart-k8-basic-auth.png["Screenshot of 'Add a policy' page",width=90%]
+
Be careful to avoid selecting the similarly named policy for LDAP.
. Click *Next*.
. Configure a Basic Authentication policy:
+
image::gateway-quickstart-config-basic-auth.png["Screenshot of 'Configure Basic Authentication - Simple policy' page",width=80%]
+
.. For *User Name*, enter `user` instead of your real user name. 
+
If the field is pre-populated with a value, you can keep the value or change it if you need to protect it.
+
.. For *User Password*, enter `pw`.
+

> You are not required to change this value if you do not need to protect it.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what this means, what do you mean with `if you do not need to protect it`?

> You are not required to change this value if you do not need to protect it.

Author: ```suggestion
If the field is pre-populated with a value, you can keep the value or change it if you need to protect it.
```

error: the server doesn't have a resource type "services"
----
+
For additional information, see <<check-cluster>>.

[[upgrade-failed]]
* Some issues can cause the Helm upgrade command to hang for up to 5 minutes (due to the `--wait` flag in the command) before producing the following timeout error:
+
----
Error: UPGRADE FAILED: timed out waiting for the condition
----
+
This error typically means that your cluster configuration is incorrect or that your cluster configuration tool does not support this process. See <<k8-cluster-reqs>>. One potential cause is the failure to generate a `Service` resource of the `LoadBalancer` type. You can troubleshoot further by running the following commands:

** {empty}
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl -n gateway describe deployment
----

** {empty}
+
[source,kubectl]
----
kubectl -n gateway describe service
----

* If the `registration.yaml` file is invalid when you pass it to the Helm during deployment of Flex Gateway, the following error results:
+
----
Error: UPGRADE FAILED: execution error at (flex-gateway/templates/deployment.yaml:4:10):
registerSecretName, registration.content or registration.secretName is required!
----
+

> When this error occurs, check the `registration.yaml`. Make sure the file is not empty. If the file is empty, re-register your gateway with a new, unique name to generate a new `registration.yaml` (see <<register-flex>>) and rerun the procedures that follow the registration step. 

Reviewer 2: Can we put this section as the first one of the helm troubleshooting points? Because it's the first one that could happen

Author: done
